<root id="aag-afi5_developing_an_audit_approach" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Developing an Audit Approach</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Developing an Audit Approach</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi5_09" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.09</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.09</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In testing how management values the financial
instrument and in responding to the assessed risks of material misstatement
in accordance with paragraphs .12–.14 of AU-C section 540B, the auditor
undertakes one or more of the following procedures, taking account
of the nature of the accounting estimates:</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">
      Many auditors find that a combination of
testing how management valued the financial instrument and the data
on which it is based and testing the operating effectiveness of controls
will be an effective and efficient audit approach. Although subsequent
events may provide some evidence about the valuation of financial
instruments, other factors may need to be taken into account to address
any changes in market conditions subsequent to the balance sheet date. If the auditor is unable to test how management made the
estimate, the auditor may choose to develop a point estimate or range.
      <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
        <para>Paragraphs .A64–.A67 of AU-C section 540B provide examples of
some of the factors that may be relevant.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Test how management made the accounting estimate and
the data on which it is based (including valuation techniques used
by the entity in its valuations).</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Test the operating effectiveness of the controls over
how management made the accounting estimate, together with appropriate
substantive procedures.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Develop a point estimate or range to evaluate management’s
point estimate.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Determine whether events occurring up to the date
of the auditor’s report provide audit evidence regarding the accounting
estimate.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_10" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.10</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.10</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      As described in , "Gaining an Understanding About Financial Instruments,"
of this guide, to estimate the fair value of financial instruments,
management may
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi1">chapter 1</olink>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">Management often may use a combination of
these approaches. For example, management may have its own pricing
process but use third-party pricing sources to corroborate its own
values.</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>utilize information from third-party pricing sources.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>gather data to develop its own estimate using various
techniques, including models.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>engage a specialist to develop an estimate.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>