<root id="aag-afi1_28" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>1.28</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">1.28</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">
    Paragraphs 5–20 of FASB ASC 820-10-55
describe the use of present value techniques to measure fair value.
Those paragraphs neither prescribe the use of a single specific present
value technique nor limit the use of present value techniques to measure
fair value to the techniques discussed therein.  (that is, an application of the income approach)
is a tool used to link future amounts to a present amount using a
discount rate. A fair value measurement of an asset or a liability
using a present value technique captures all of the following elements
from the perspective of market participants at the measurement date:
    <emphasis role="italic">Present value</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    An estimate of future cash flows for the asset or liability
being measured.
    <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    Expectations about possible variations in the amount and timing
of the cash flows representing the uncertainty inherent in the cash
flows.
    <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    The time value of money, represented by the rate on risk-free
monetary assets that have maturity dates or durations that coincide
with the period covered by the cash flows and pose neither uncertainty
in timing nor risk of default to the holder (that is, a risk-free
interest rate). For present value computations denominated in nominal
U.S. dollars, the yield curve for U.S. Treasury securities determines
the appropriate risk-free interest rate.
    <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    The price for bearing the uncertainty inherent in the cash
flows (that is, a risk premium).
    <emphasis role="italic">d.</emphasis>
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    Other factors that market participants would take into account
in the circumstances.
    <emphasis role="italic">e.</emphasis>
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    For a liability, the nonperformance risk relating to that liability,
including the reporting entity’s (obligor’s) own credit risk.
    <emphasis role="italic">f.</emphasis>
    <tab/>
  </para>
</root>