<root id="aag-afi3_segregation_of_duties" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Segregation of Duties</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Segregation of Duties</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi3_30" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.30</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.30</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Segregation of duties and the assignment
of personnel is an important control activity, particularly when exposed
to financial instruments. Financial instrument activities may be segregated
into a number of functions, including the following:</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      Executing the transaction (dealing). In entities with a high volume
of financial instrument transactions, this may be done by the sales
function.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        a.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      Initiating cash payments and accepting cash receipts (settlements).
      <emphasis role="italic">
        b.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      Sending out trade confirmations and reconciling the differences between
the entity’s records and replies from counterparties, if any.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        c.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      Recording correctly all transactions in the accounting records.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        d.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      Monitoring risk limits. In entities with a high volume of financial
instrument transactions, this may be performed by the risk management
function.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        e.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      Monitoring positions and valuing financial instruments.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        f.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_31" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.31</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.31</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Many organizations choose to segregate
the duties of those investing in financial instruments, those valuing
financial instruments, those settling financial instruments, and those
accounting for the financial instruments. </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_32" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.32</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.32</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">When an entity is too small to achieve
proper segregation of duties, the role of management and those charged
with governance in monitoring financial instrument activities is of
particular importance.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_33" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.33</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.33</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">A feature of some entities’ internal control
is an independent price verification (IPV) function. This department
is responsible for separately verifying the price of some financial
instruments and may use alternative data sources, methodologies, and
assumptions. The IPV provides an objective look at the pricing that
has been developed in another part of the entity. </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_34" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.34</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.34</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Ordinarily, the risk management function
establishes policies on valuation and other functions (for example,
administrative and support services) and may be responsible for ensuring
adherence to the policy. Entities with a greater use of financial
instruments may perform daily valuations of their financial instrument
portfolio and examine the contribution to profit or loss of individual
financial instrument valuations as a test of the reasonableness of
valuations.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_35" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.35</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.35</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Regular reconciliation of the entity’s
records to external banks’ and custodians’ records enables the entity
to ensure transactions are properly recorded. Appropriate segregation
of duties between those transacting the trades and those reconciling
them is important, as is a rigorous process for reviewing reconciliations
and clearing reconciling items.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_36" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.36</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.36</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Controls may also be established that
require traders to identify whether a complex financial instrument
may have unique features (for example, embedded derivatives). In such
circumstances, there may be a separate function that evaluates complex
financial instrument transactions at their initiation (which may be
known as a product control group) working in connection with an accounting
policy group to ensure that the transaction is accurately recorded.
Although smaller entities may not have product control groups, an
entity may have a process in place relating to the review of complex
financial instrument contracts at the point of origination in order
to ensure that they are accounted for appropriately in accordance
with the applicable financial reporting framework.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_37" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.37</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.37</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      , "Examples of Control Objectives, Related Controls, and
Illustrative Tests of Controls for Financial Instruments," of this
guide provides examples of control objectives, related controls, and
illustrative tests of controls for financial instruments.
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appC">Appendix
C</olink>
    </para>
  </section>
</root>