<root id="aag-afi3_the_entitys_risk_assessment" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>The Entity’s Risk Assessment Process</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Entity’s Risk Assessment Process</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi3_17" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.17</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.17</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">An entity’s risk assessment process exists
to establish how management identifies business risks that derive
from its use of financial instruments, including how management estimates
the significance of the risks, assesses the likelihood of their occurrence,
and decides upon actions to manage them.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_18" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.18</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.18</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The entity’s risk assessment process forms
the basis for how management determines the risks to be managed. Risk
assessment processes exist with the objective of ensuring that management</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      understands the risks inherent in a financial instrument before they
enter into it, including the objective of entering into the transaction
and its structure (for example, the economics and business purpose
of the entity’s financial instrument activities).
      <emphasis role="italic">
        a.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      performs adequate due diligence commensurate with the risks associated
with particular financial instruments.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        b.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      monitors its outstanding positions to understand how market conditions
are affecting its exposures.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        c.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      has procedures in place to reduce or change risk exposure if necessary
and for managing business risk, which includes the risk of damaging
its reputation.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        d.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      subjects these processes to rigorous supervision and review.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        e.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_19" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.19</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.19</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The structure implemented to monitor and
manage exposure to risks should</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      be appropriate and consistent with the entity’s attitude toward risk
as determined by those charged with governance.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        a.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      specify the approval levels for the authorization of different types
of financial instruments and transactions that may be entered into
and for what purposes. The permitted instruments and approval levels
should reflect the expertise of those involved in financial instrument
activities, demonstrating management’s commitment to competence.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        b.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      set appropriate limits for the maximum allowable exposure to each
type of risk (including approved counterparties). Levels of allowable
exposure may vary depending on the type of risk or counterparty.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        c.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      provide for the objective and timely monitoring of the financial
risks and control activities.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        d.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      provide for the objective and timely reporting of exposures, risks,
and the results of financial instrument activities in managing risk.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        e.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      evaluate management’s track record for assessing the risks of particular
financial instruments.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        f.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_20" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.20</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.20</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The types and levels of risks that an
entity faces are directly related to the types of financial instruments
with which it deals, including the complexity of these instruments
and the volume of financial instruments transacted.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_risk_management_function" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Risk Management Function</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Risk Management Function</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_21" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.21</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.21</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Some entities (for example, large financial
institutions with a high volume of financial instrument transactions)
may be required by law or regulation or may choose to establish a
formal risk management function. This function is separated from those
responsible for undertaking and managing financial instrument transactions.
The function is responsible for reporting on and monitoring financial
instrument activities and may include a formal risk committee established
by those charged with governance. Examples of key responsibilities
in this area may include</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        implementing the risk management policy set by those charged with
governance (including analyses of the risks to which an entity may
be exposed).
        <emphasis role="italic">
          a.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        designing risk limit structures and ensuring these risk limits are
implemented in practice.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          b.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        developing stress scenarios and subjecting open position portfolios
to sensitivity analysis, including reviews of unusual movements in
positions.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          c.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        reviewing and analyzing new financial instrument products.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          d.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_22" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.22</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.22</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Financial instruments may have the associated
risk that a loss might exceed the amount, if any, of the value of
the financial instrument recognized on the balance sheet. For example,
a sudden fall in the market price of a commodity may force an entity
to realize losses to close a forward position in that commodity due
to collateral, or margin, requirements. In some cases, the potential
losses may be enough to cast substantial doubt on the entity’s ability
to continue as a going concern. The entity may perform sensitivity
analyses or value-at-risk analyses to assess the future hypothetical
effects on financial instruments subject to market risks. However,
value-at-risk analysis does not fully reflect the extent of the risks
that may affect the entity; sensitivity and scenario analyses also
may be subject to limitations.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_23" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.23</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.23</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The volume and sophistication of financial
instrument activity and relevant regulatory requirements will influence
the entity’s consideration whether to establish a formal risk management
function and how the function may be structured. In entities that
have not established a separate risk management function (for example,
entities with relatively few financial instruments or financial instruments
that are less complex), reporting on and monitoring financial instrument
activities may be a component of the accounting or finance function’s
responsibility or management’s overall responsibility and may include
a formal risk committee established by those charged with governance.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>