<root id="aag-afi_appA" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Appendix A — Overview of Statements on Quality Control
Standards</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Appendix A</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">Overview of Statements on Quality
Control Standards</subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    <emphasis role="italic">This appendix is
nonauthoritative and is included for informational purposes only.</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    This appendix is a partial reproduction of
chapter 1 of the AICPA practice aid , available at .
    <emphasis role="italic">Establishing
and Maintaining a System of Quality Control for a CPA Firm’s Accounting
and Auditing Practice</emphasis>
    <ulink url="https://us.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/enhancingauditqualitypracticeaid.html">https://us.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/enhancingauditqualitypracticeaid.html</ulink>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    This appendix highlights certain aspects
of the quality control standards issued by the AICPA. If appropriate,
readers should also refer to the quality control standards issued
by the PCAOB, available at .
    <ulink url="https://pcaobus.org/oversight/standards/qc-standards">https://pcaobus.org/oversight/standards/qc-standards</ulink>
  </para>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_01" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.01</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.01</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The objectives of a system of quality
control are to provide a CPA firm with reasonable assurance that the firm and its personnel comply with professional
standards and applicable regulatory and legal requirements, and that
the firm or engagement partners issue reports that are appropriate
in the circumstances. ,  (AICPA, ), addresses a CPA firm’s responsibilities for its system of quality
control for its accounting and auditing practice. That section is
to be read in conjunction with the  and other relevant ethical requirements.
      <footnote id="pra-sqcs_1_fn1" label="fn 1">
        <para>
          The term , which is defined as a high, but not absolute, level of assurance,
is used because absolute assurance cannot be attained.  of QM section
10A,  (AICPA, ), states, "Any system of quality control has inherent limitations
that can reduce its effectiveness."
          <emphasis role="italic">reasonable assurance</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">A Firm’s System of Quality Control</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">Professional Standards</emphasis>
          <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="qm_10a_53">Paragraph .53</olink>
        </para>
      </footnote>
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="qm_10a">QM
section 10A</olink>
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="code_of_professional_conduct_revised">AICPA Code of Professional
Conduct</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">A Firm’s System of Quality
Control</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Professional Standards</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_02" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.02</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.02</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">A system of quality control consists of
policies designed to achieve the objectives of the system and the
procedures necessary to implement and monitor compliance with those
policies. The nature, extent, and formality of a firm’s quality control
policies and procedures will depend on various factors such as the
firm’s size; the number and operating characteristics of its offices;
the degree of authority allowed to, and the knowledge and experience
possessed by, firm personnel; and the nature and complexity of the
firm’s practice.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_communication_of_quality_control" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Communication of Quality Control Policies and Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Communication of Quality Control Policies
and Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_03" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.03</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.03</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The firm should communicate its quality
control policies and procedures to its personnel. Most firms will
find it appropriate to communicate their policies and procedures in
writing and distribute them, or make them available electronically,
to all professional personnel. Effective communication includes the
following:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Effective communication also includes procedures
for personnel to communicate their views or concerns on quality control
matters to the firm’s management.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>A description of quality control policies and procedures
and the objectives they are designed to achieve</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The message that each individual has a personal responsibility
for quality</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>A requirement for each individual to be familiar with
and to comply with these policies and procedures</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_elements_of_a_system" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Elements of a System of Quality Control</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Elements of a System of Quality Control</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_04" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.04</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.04</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        A firm must establish and maintain a system
of quality control. The firm’s system of quality control should include
policies and procedures that address each of the following elements
of quality control identified in  of QM section 10A:
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="qm_10a_17">paragraph .17</olink>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Leadership responsibilities for quality within the
firm (the "tone at the top")</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Relevant ethical requirements</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Acceptance and continuance of client relationships
and specific engagements</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Human resources</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Engagement performance</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Monitoring</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_05" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.05</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.05</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The elements of quality control are interrelated.
For example, a firm continually assesses client relationships to comply
with relevant ethical requirements, including independence, integrity,
and objectivity, and policies and procedures related to the acceptance
and continuance of client relationships and specific engagements.
Similarly, the human resources element of quality control encompasses
criteria related to professional development, hiring, advancement,
and assignment of firm personnel to engagements, all of which affect
policies and procedures related to engagement performance. In addition,
policies and procedures related to the monitoring element of quality
control enable a firm to evaluate whether its policies and procedures
for each of the other five elements of quality control are suitably
designed and effectively applied.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_06" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.06</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.06</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Policies and procedures established by
the firm related to each element are designed to achieve reasonable
assurance with respect to the purpose of that element. Deficiencies
in policies and procedures for an element may result in not achieving
reasonable assurance with respect to the purpose of that element;
however, the system of quality control, as a whole, may still be effective
in providing the firm with reasonable assurance that the firm and
its personnel comply with professional standards and applicable regulatory
and legal requirements and that the firm or engagement partners issue
reports that are appropriate in the circumstances.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_07" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.07</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.07</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">If a firm merges, acquires, sells, or
otherwise changes a portion of its practice, the surviving firm evaluates
and, as necessary, revises, implements, and maintains firm-wide quality
control policies and procedures that are appropriate for the changed
circumstances.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_leadership_responsibilities_for_quality" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Leadership Responsibilities for Quality Within the Firm
(the "Tone at the Top") </titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Leadership Responsibilities for Quality
Within the Firm (the "Tone at the Top") </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_08" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.08</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.08</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The purpose of the leadership responsibilities
element of a system of quality control is to promote an internal culture
based on the recognition that quality is essential in performing engagements.
The firm should establish and maintain the following policies and
procedures to achieve this purpose:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Require the firm’s leadership (managing partner, board
of managing partners, CEO, or equivalent) to assume ultimate responsibility
for the firm’s system of quality control.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Provide the firm with reasonable assurance that personnel
assigned operational responsibility for the firm’s quality control
system have sufficient and appropriate experience and ability to identify
and understand quality control issues and develop appropriate policies
and procedures, as well as the necessary authority to implement those
policies and procedures.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_09" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.09</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.09</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Establishing and maintaining the following
policies and procedures assists firms in recognizing that the firm’s
business strategy is subject to the overarching requirement for the
firm to achieve the objectives of the system of quality control in
all the engagements that the firm performs:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Assign management responsibilities so that commercial
considerations do not override the quality of the work performed.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Design policies and procedures addressing performance
evaluation, compensation, and advancement (including incentive systems)
with regard to personnel to demonstrate the firm’s overarching commitment
to the objectives of the system of quality control.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Devote sufficient and appropriate resources for the
development, communication, and support of its quality control policies
and procedures.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_relevant_ethical_requirements" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Relevant Ethical Requirements</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Relevant Ethical Requirements</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_10" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.10</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.10</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The purpose of the relevant ethical requirements
element of a system of quality control is to provide the firm with
reasonable assurance that the firm and its personnel comply with relevant
ethical requirements when discharging professional responsibilities.
Relevant ethical requirements include independence, integrity, and
objectivity. Establishing and maintaining policies such as the following
assist the firm in obtaining this assurance:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Require that personnel adhere to relevant ethical
requirements such as those in regulations, interpretations, and rules
of the AICPA, state CPA societies, state boards of accountancy, state
statutes, the U.S. Government Accountability Office, and any other
applicable regulators.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Establish procedures to communicate independence requirements
to firm personnel and, where applicable, others subject to them.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Establish procedures to identify and evaluate possible
threats to independence and objectivity, including the familiarity
threat that may be created by using the same senior personnel on an
audit or attest engagement over a long period of time, and to take
appropriate action to eliminate those threats or reduce them to an
acceptable level by applying safeguards.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Require that the firm withdraw from the engagement
if effective safeguards to reduce threats to independence to an acceptable
level cannot be applied.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Require written confirmation, at least annually, of
compliance with the firm’s policies and procedures on independence
from all firm personnel required to be independent by relevant requirements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            Establish procedures for confirming the independence
of another firm or firm personnel in associated member firms who perform
part of the engagement. This would apply to national firm personnel,
foreign firm personnel, and foreign-associated firms.
            <footnote id="pra-sqcs_1_fn2" label="fn 2">
              <para>
                A  is a firm domiciled outside of the United States and its territories
that is a member of, correspondent with, or similarly associated with
an international firm or international association of firms.
                <emphasis role="italic">foreign-associated firm</emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Require the rotation of personnel for audit or attest
engagements where regulatory or other authorities require such rotation
after a specified period.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_acceptance_and_continuance_of" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Acceptance and Continuance of Client Relationships and
Specific Engagements</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Acceptance and Continuance of Client
Relationships and Specific Engagements</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_11" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.11</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.11</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The purpose of the quality control element
that addresses acceptance and continuance of client relationships
and specific engagements is to establish criteria for deciding whether
to accept or continue a client relationship and whether to perform
a specific engagement for a client. A firm’s client acceptance and
continuance policies represent a key element in mitigating litigation
and business risk. Accordingly, it is important that a firm be aware
that the integrity and reputation of a client’s management could reflect
the reliability of the client’s accounting records and financial representations
and, therefore, affect the firm’s reputation or involvement in litigation.
A firm’s policies and procedures related to the acceptance and continuance
of client relationships and specific engagements should provide the
firm with reasonable assurance that it will undertake or continue
relationships and engagements only where it</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>is competent to perform the engagement and has the
capabilities, including the time and resources, to do so;</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>can comply with legal and relevant ethical requirements;</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>has considered the client’s integrity and does not
have information that would lead it to conclude that the client lacks
integrity; and</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>has reached an understanding with the client regarding
the services to be performed.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_12" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.12</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.12</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">This assurance should be obtained before
accepting an engagement with a new client, when deciding whether to
continue an existing engagement, and when considering acceptance of
a new engagement with an existing client. Establishing and maintaining
policies such as the following assist the firm in obtaining this assurance:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            Evaluate factors that have a bearing on management’s
integrity and consider the risk associated with providing professional
services in particular circumstances.
            <footnote id="pra-sqcs_1_fn3" label="fn 3">
              <para>
                Such considerations would include the risk of providing professional
services to significant clients or to other clients for which the
practitioner’s objectivity or the appearance of independence may be
impaired. In broad terms, the significance of a client to a member
or a firm refers to relationships that could diminish a practitioner’s
objectivity and independence in performing attest services. Examples
of factors to consider in determining the significance of a client
to an engagement partner, office, or practice unit include () the amount of time the partner, office,
or practice unit devotes to the engagement, () the effect on the partner’s stature within the firm
as a result of his or her service to the client, () the manner in which the partner, office,
or practice unit is compensated, or () the effect that losing the client would have on the partner, office,
or practice unit.
                <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
                <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
                <emphasis role="italic">c</emphasis>
                <emphasis role="italic">d</emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Evaluate whether the engagement can be completed with
professional competence; undertake only those engagements for which
the firm has the capabilities, resources, and professional competence
to complete; and evaluate, at the end of specific periods or upon
occurrence of certain events, whether the relationship should be continued.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Obtain an understanding, preferably in writing, with
the client regarding the services to be performed.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Establish procedures on continuing an engagement and
the client relationship, including procedures for dealing with information
that would have caused the firm to decline an engagement if the information
had been available earlier.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Require documentation of how issues relating to acceptance
or continuance of client relationships and specific engagements were
resolved.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_human_resources" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Human Resources</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Human Resources</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_13" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.13</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.13</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        The purpose of the human resources element
of a system of quality control is to provide the firm with reasonable
assurance that it has sufficient personnel with the capabilities,
competence, and commitment to ethical principles necessary () to perform its engagements in accordance
with professional standards and regulatory and legal requirements,
and () to enable the firm to issue
reports that are appropriate in the circumstances. Establishing and
maintaining policies such as the following assist the firm in obtaining
this assurance:
        <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Recruit and hire personnel of integrity who possess
the characteristics that enable them to perform competently.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            Determine capabilities and competencies required for
an engagement, especially for the engagement partner, based on the
characteristics of the particular client, industry, and kind of service
being performed. Specific competencies necessary for an engagement
partner are discussed in  of QM section 10A.
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="qm_10a_a27">paragraph .A27</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Determine the capabilities and competencies possessed
by personnel.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Assign the responsibility for each engagement to an
engagement partner.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Assign personnel based on the knowledge, skills, and
abilities required in the circumstances and the nature and extent
of supervision needed.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Have personnel participate in general and industry-specific
continuing professional education and professional development activities
that enable them to accomplish assigned responsibilities and satisfy
applicable continuing professional education requirements of the AICPA,
state boards of accountancy, and other regulators.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Select for advancement only those individuals who
have the qualifications necessary to fulfill the responsibilities
they will be called on to assume.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_engagement_performance" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Engagement Performance </titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Engagement Performance </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_14" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.14</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.14</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        The purpose of the engagement performance
element of quality control is to provide the firm with reasonable
assurance () that engagements
are consistently performed in accordance with applicable professional
standards and regulatory and legal requirements, and () that the firm or the engagement partner
issues reports that are appropriate in the circumstances. Policies
and procedures for engagement performance should address all phases
of the design and execution of the engagement, including engagement
performance, supervision responsibilities, and review responsibilities.
Policies and procedures also should require that consultation takes
place when appropriate. In addition, a policy should establish criteria
against which all engagements are to be evaluated to determine whether
an engagement quality control review should be performed.
        <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_15" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.15</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.15</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Establishing and maintaining policies
such as the following assist the firm in obtaining the assurance required
relating to the engagement performance element of quality control:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Plan all engagements to meet professional, regulatory,
and the firm’s requirements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Perform work and issue reports and other communications
that meet professional, regulatory, and the firm’s requirements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Require that work performed by other team members
be reviewed by qualified engagement team members, which may include
the engagement partner, on a timely basis.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Require the engagement team to complete the assembly
of final engagement files on a timely basis.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Establish procedures to maintain the confidentiality,
safe custody, integrity, accessibility, and retrievability of engagement
documentation.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Require the retention of engagement documentation
for a period of time sufficient to meet the needs of the firm, professional
standards, laws, and regulations.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Require that</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>consultation take place when appropriate (for example,
when dealing with complex, unusual, unfamiliar, difficult, or contentious
issues);</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>sufficient and appropriate resources be available
to enable appropriate consultation to take place;</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>all the relevant facts known to the engagement team
be provided to those consulted;</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the nature, scope, and conclusions of such consultations
be documented; and</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the conclusions resulting from such consultations
be implemented.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Require that</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>differences of opinion be dealt with and resolved;</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>conclusions reached are documented and implemented;
and</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the report not be released until the matter is resolved.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Require that</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>all engagements be evaluated against the criteria
for determining whether an engagement quality control review should
be performed;</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>an engagement quality control review be performed
for all engagements that meet the criteria; and</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the review be completed before the report is released.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Establish procedures addressing the nature, timing,
extent, and documentation of the engagement quality control review.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Establish criteria for the eligibility of engagement
quality control reviewers.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_monitoring" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Monitoring</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Monitoring</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_16" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.16</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.16</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The purpose of the monitoring element
of a system of quality control is to provide the firm and its engagement
partners with reasonable assurance that the policies and procedures
related to the system of quality control are relevant, adequate, operating
effectively, and complied with in practice. Monitoring involves an
ongoing consideration and evaluation of the appropriateness of the
design, the effectiveness of the operation of a firm’s quality control
system, and a firm’s compliance with its quality control policies
and procedures. The purpose of monitoring compliance with quality
control policies and procedures is to provide an evaluation of the
following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Adherence to professional standards and regulatory
and legal requirements</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Whether the quality control system has been appropriately
designed and effectively implemented</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Whether the firm’s quality control policies and procedures
have been operating effectively so that reports issued by the firm
are appropriate in the circumstances</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_17" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.17</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.17</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Establishing and maintaining policies
such as the following assist the firm in obtaining the assurance required
relating to the monitoring element of quality control:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_4">This includes establishing clearly defined
channels for firm personnel to raise any concerns in a manner that
enables them to come forward without fear of reprisal and documenting
complaints and allegations and the responses to them.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Assign responsibility for the monitoring process to
a partner or partners or other persons with sufficient and appropriate
experience and authority in the firm to assume that responsibility.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Assign performance of the monitoring process to competent
individuals.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Require the performance of monitoring procedures that
are sufficiently comprehensive to enable the firm to assess compliance
with all applicable professional standards and the firm’s quality
control policies and procedures. Monitoring procedures consist of
the following:</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>Review of selected administrative and personnel records
pertaining to the quality control elements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Review of engagement documentation, reports, and clients'
financial statements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Summarization of the findings from the monitoring
procedures, at least annually, and consideration of the systemic causes
of findings that indicate that improvements are needed.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Determination of any corrective actions to be taken
or improvements to be made with respect to the specific engagements
reviewed or the firm's quality control policies and procedures.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Communication of the identified findings to appropriate
firm management personnel.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Consideration of findings by appropriate firm management
personnel who should also determine that any actions necessary, including
necessary modifications to the quality control system, are taken on
a timely basis.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Assessment of</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_6">
        <listitem>
          <para>the appropriateness of the firm’s guidance materials
and any practice aids;</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>new developments in professional standards and regulatory
and legal requirements and how they are reflected in the firm’s policies
and procedures where appropriate;</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>compliance with policies and procedures on independence;</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the effectiveness of continuing professional development,
including training;</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>decisions related to acceptance and continuance of
client relationships and specific engagements; and</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>firm personnel’s understanding of the firm’s quality
control policies and procedures and implementation thereof.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Communicate at least annually, to relevant engagement
partners and other appropriate personnel, deficiencies noted as a
result of the monitoring process and recommendations for appropriate
remedial action.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Communicate the results of the monitoring of its quality
control system process to relevant firm personnel at least annually.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Establish procedures designed to provide the firm
with reasonable assurance that it deals appropriately with the following:</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>Complaints and allegations that the work performed
by the firm fails to comply with professional standards and regulatory
and legal requirements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Allegations of noncompliance with the firm’s system
of quality control.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Deficiencies in the design or operation of the firm’s
quality control policies and procedures, or noncompliance with the
firm’s system of quality control by an individual or individuals,
as identified during the investigations into complaints and allegations.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Require appropriate documentation to provide evidence
of the operation of each element of its system of quality control.
The form and content of documentation evidencing the operation of
each of the elements of the system of quality control is a matter
of judgment and depends on a number of factors, including the following,
for example:</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>The size of the firm and the number of offices.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The nature and complexity of the firm’s practice and
organization.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Require retention of documentation providing evidence
of the operation of the system of quality control for a period of
time sufficient to permit those performing monitoring procedures and
peer review to evaluate the firm’s compliance with its system of quality
control, or for a longer period if required by law or regulation.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_18" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.18</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.18</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Some of the monitoring procedures discussed
in the previous list may be accomplished through the performance of
the following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Engagement quality control review</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Review of engagement documentation, reports, and clients’
financial statements for selected engagements after the report release
date</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            Inspection procedures
            <footnote id="pra-sqcs_1_fn4" label="fn 4">
              <para>
                 is a retrospective
evaluation of the adequacy of the firm’s quality control policies
and procedures, its personnel’s understanding of those policies and
procedures, and the extent of the firm’s compliance with them. Although
monitoring procedures are meant to be ongoing, they may include inspection
procedures performed at a fixed point in time. Monitoring is a broad
concept; inspection is one specific type of monitoring procedure.
                <emphasis role="italic">Inspection</emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_documentation_of_quality_control" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Documentation of Quality Control Policies and Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Documentation of Quality Control Policies
and Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="pra-sqcs_1_19" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.19</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.19</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The firm should document each element
of its system of quality control. The extent of the documentation
will depend on the size, structure, and nature of the firm’s practice.
Documentation may be as simple as a checklist of the firm’s policies
and procedures or as extensive as practice manuals.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>