<root id="aag-afi2_understanding_the_financial_instruments" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Understanding the Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Understanding the Financial Instruments</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi2_06" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>2.06</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">2.06</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The characteristics of financial instruments
may obscure certain elements of risk and exposure. Obtaining an understanding
of the instruments in which the entity has invested or to which it
is exposed, including the characteristics of the instruments, helps
the auditor identify whether</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>important aspects of a transaction are missing or
inaccurately recorded.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the risks inherent in them are fully understood and
managed by the entity.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the instruments are valued using an appropriate valuation
technique.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the financial instruments are appropriately classified
into current and noncurrent assets and liabilities.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi2_07" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>2.07</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">2.07</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Examples of matters that the auditor may
consider when obtaining an understanding of the entity’s financial
instruments include</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">Inquiries of the internal audit function
and risk management function, if such functions exist, and discussions
with those charged with governance may assist the auditor in obtaining
this understanding.</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>the types of financial instruments to which the entity
is exposed.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the purpose for which they are used.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>management’s and, when appropriate, those charged
with governance’s understanding of the financial instruments, their
use, and the accounting requirements.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>their exact terms and characteristics so that their
implications can be fully understood and, in particular, when transactions
are linked, the overall effect of the financial instrument transactions.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>how they fit into the entity’s overall risk management
strategy.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi2_08" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>2.08</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">2.08</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In some cases, a contract, including a
contract for a nonfinancial instrument, may contain a derivative.
Some financial reporting frameworks permit or require such embedded
derivatives to be separated from the host contract in some circumstances.
Understanding management’s process for identifying and accounting
for embedded derivatives will assist the auditor in understanding
the risks to which the entity is exposed.</para>
  </section>
</root>