<root id="aag-afi9_06" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>9.06</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">9.06</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">According to FASB ASC 815-15-25-5, the
fair value election for hybrid financial instruments in paragraphs
4–5 of FASB ASC 815-15-25 may be made on an instrument-by-instrument
basis.</para>
  <para id="aag-afi9_exhibit_9-1" role="ps_indent_0">
    <emphasis role="bold">
      Exhibit 9-1 — Martin, Inc., Comparison of the Conversion Option in
the Larson Enterprises’ Bonds With the Criteria in FASB  815-15-25-1
for Separately Accounting for an Embedded Derivative
      <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">Because all three criteria are met, Martin
should account for the option (that is, embedded derivative) separately
from the straight bond (that is, host contract).</para>
  <table frame="all" id="aag-afi9_table1" role="ps_table_center">
    <title/>
    <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
      <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.92in"/>
      <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="3.04in"/>
      <thead>
        <row>
          <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">Criterion</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">Analysis</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>
               The economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative
instrument are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics
and risks of the host contract.
              <emphasis role="italic">Not clearly and closely related.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>
              Following the guidance in paragraphs 30–34 of FASB  (ASC) 815-10-15,
because the option is based on stock prices, it is not clearly and
closely related to the straight bond.
              <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
            </para>
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">Criterion is met.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>
               The hybrid instrument that embodies both the embedded derivative
instrument and host contract is not remeasured at fair value under
otherwise applicable accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America, with changes in fair value reported in earnings
as they occur.
              <emphasis role="italic">Accounting for the hybrid instrument.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>
              Martin, Inc., classifies the bonds as available for sale under
FASB ASC 320-10-25-1. Accordingly, although the bonds will be remeasured
at fair value, the changes in their fair value will be reported in
other comprehensive income rather than earnings.
              <emphasis role="bold">*</emphasis>
            </para>
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">Criterion is met.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>
               A separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded instrument
meets the definition of a , subject to the requirements of FASB ASC 815-10-15.
              <emphasis role="italic">The embedded instrument is a derivative.</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">derivative</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>
              A conversion option would be a derivative subject to the requirements
of FASB ASC 815, .
              <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
            </para>
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">Criterion is met.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" nameend="c3" namest="c1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>
              If Martin, Inc., instead
classified the bonds as trading under FASB ASC 320, ,
the bonds would be remeasured at fair value, with changes in fair
value reported in earnings as they occur. Accordingly, this criterion
would not be met, and FASB ASC 815, , would prohibit accounting for the option separately
from the bond.
              <emphasis role="bold">*</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Debt and Equity Securities</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives
and Hedging</emphasis>
              <tab/>
            </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
      </tbody>
    </tgroup>
  </table>
</root>