<root id="aag-afi5_46" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>5.46</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">5.46</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraph .08 of AU-C section 500B contains
requirements for the auditor when evaluating evidence from a specialist
engaged by management. The extent of the auditor’s procedures in relation
to management’s specialist and that specialist’s work depend on the
significance of the specialist’s work for the auditor’s purposes.
Evaluating the appropriateness of management’s specialist’s work assists
the auditor in assessing whether the prices or valuations supplied
by management’s specialist provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence
to support the valuations. Examples of procedures the auditor may
perform include</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>evaluating the competence, capabilities, and objectivity
of management’s specialist (for example, his or her relationship with
the entity, reputation and standing in the market, experience with
the particular types of instruments, and understanding of the relevant
financial reporting framework applicable to the valuations).</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>obtaining an understanding of the work of management’s
specialist (for example, by assessing the appropriateness of the valuation
technique[s] used and the key market variables and assumptions used
in the valuation technique[s]).</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        evaluating the appropriateness of that specialist’s
work as audit evidence. At this point, the focus is on the appropriateness
of the specialist’s work at the level of the individual financial
instrument. For a sample of the relevant instruments, it may be appropriate
to develop an estimate independently (see  on developing a point estimate or range)
using different data and assumptions, then compare that estimate with
that of management’s specialist.
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi5_48">paragraphs 5.48–.49</olink>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>other procedures that may include</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>modeling different assumptions to derive assumptions
in another model, then considering the reasonableness of those derived
assumptions.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>comparing management’s point estimates with the auditor’s
point estimates to determine if management’s estimates are consistently
higher or lower.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>