<root id="aag-afi5_evaluating_whether_the_assumptions" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Evaluating Whether the Assumptions Used by Management
Are Reasonable</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Evaluating Whether the Assumptions Used
by Management Are Reasonable</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi5_25" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.25</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.25</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      An assumption used in a model may be deemed
to be significant if a reasonable variation in the assumption would
materially affect the measurement of the financial instrument. Management may have considered alternative assumptions
or outcomes by performing a sensitivity analysis. The extent of subjectivity
associated with assumptions influences the degree of measurement uncertainty
and may lead the auditor to conclude that a significant risk exits
(for example, in the case of Level 3 inputs). 
      <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn10" label="fn 10" role="number">
        <para>See paragraph .A113 of AU-C section 540B.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_26" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.26</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.26</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">For items valued by the entity using a
valuation model, the auditor does not function as an appraiser. Rather,
the auditor reviews the model and evaluates whether the assumptions
used are reasonable, and the model is appropriate, considering the
entity’s circumstances. For example, it may be inappropriate to use
discounted cash flows for valuing an equity investment in a start-up
enterprise if no current revenues exist on which to base the forecast
of future earnings or cash flows.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_27" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.27</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.27</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Audit procedures to test the assumptions
used by management, including those used as inputs to models, may
include evaluating whether</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">See paragraphs .A78–.A84 of AU-C section
540B for further considerations relative to evaluating the assumptions
used by management.</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>and, if so, how management has incorporated market
inputs into the development of assumptions because it is generally
preferable to seek to maximize the use of relevant observable inputs
and minimize unobservable inputs.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the assumptions are consistent with observable market
conditions and the characteristics of the financial asset or liability.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the sources of market-participant assumptions are
relevant and reliable and how management has selected the assumptions
to use when a number of different marketplace assumptions exist.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>sensitivity analyses indicate that valuations would
change significantly with only small or moderate changes in assumptions.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_28" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.28</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.28</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s consideration of judgments
about the future is based on information available at the time at
which the judgment is made. Subsequent events may result in outcomes
that are inconsistent with judgments that were reasonable at the time
they were made.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_29" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.29</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.29</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Audit procedures dealing with management’s
assumptions are performed in the context of the audit of the entity’s
financial statements. The objective of the audit procedures is, therefore,
not intended to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide
an opinion on the assumptions themselves. Rather, the auditor performs
procedures to evaluate whether the assumptions provide a reasonable
basis for measuring fair values in the context of an audit of the
financial statements as a whole.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_30" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.30</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.30</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Identifying those assumptions that appear
to be significant to the fair value measurement requires the exercise
of judgment by management. The auditor focuses attention on the significant
assumptions that management has identified. Generally, significant
assumptions cover matters that materially affect the fair value measurement
and may include those that are</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>sensitive to variation or uncertainty in amount or
nature. (For example, assumptions about short-term interest rates
may be less susceptible to significant variation compared with assumptions
about long-term interest rates.)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>susceptible to misapplication or bias.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_31" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.31</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.31</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor may consider the sensitivity
of the valuation to changes in significant assumptions, including
market conditions that may affect the value. When applicable, the
auditor may encourage management to use techniques such as sensitivity
analysis to help identify particularly sensitive assumptions. If management
has not identified particularly sensitive assumptions, the auditor
considers whether to employ techniques to identify those assumptions.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_32" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.32</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.32</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The evaluation of whether the assumptions
provide a reasonable basis for the fair value measurements relates
to the whole set of assumptions, as well as each assumption individually.
Assumptions are frequently interdependent and, therefore, need to
be internally consistent. A particular assumption that may appear
reasonable when taken in isolation may not be reasonable when used
in conjunction with other assumptions. The auditor is required to
obtain an understanding of how management makes the accounting estimates
and the data on which they are based.
      <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn11" label="fn 11" role="number">
        <para>
          Paragraph .08 of AU-C section
540B.
          <emphasis role="italic">c</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
</root>