<root id="aag-afi_preface_guidance_considered_in_this" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Guidance Considered in This Edition</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Guidance Considered in This Edition</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">This edition of the guide has been modified
by AICPA staff to include certain changes necessary due to the issuance
of authoritative guidance since the guide was originally issued, and
other revisions as deemed appropriate. Authoritative guidance issued
through September 1, 2020, has been considered in the development
of this edition of the guide. However, this guide does not include
all audit, accounting, reporting, regulatory, and other requirements
applicable to an entity or a particular engagement. This guide is
intended to be used in conjunction with all applicable sources of
relevant guidance.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">Relevant guidance that is issued and effective
on or before September 1, 2020, is incorporated directly in the text
of this guide. Relevant guidance issued but not yet effective as of
September 1, 2020, but becoming effective on or before December 31,
2020, is also presented directly in the text of the guide, but shaded
gray and accompanied by a footnote indicating the effective date of
the new guidance. The distinct presentation of this content is intended
to aid the reader in differentiating content that may not be effective
for the reader’s purposes (as part of the guide’s “dual guidance”
treatment of applicable new guidance).</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">Relevant guidance issued but not yet effective
as of the date of the guide and not becoming effective until after
December 31, 2020 is referenced in a “guidance update” box, that is,
a gray shaded box that contains summary information on the guidance
issued but not yet effective.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">In updating this guide, all guidance issued
up to and including the following was considered, but not necessarily
incorporated, as determined based on applicability:</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">Users of this guide should consider guidance
issued subsequent to those items listed previously to determine their
effect, if any, on entities and engagements covered by this guide.
In determining the applicability of recently issued guidance, its
effective date should also be considered.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    The changes made to this edition of the guide
are identified in , “Schedule of Changes Made to the Text From the Previous Edition.”
The changes do not include all those that might be considered necessary
if the guide were subjected to a comprehensive review and revision.
    <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appG">appendix G</olink>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    FASB standards quoted are from the FASB  ©2020,
Financial Accounting Foundation. All rights reserved. Used by permission.
    <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        FASB Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2020-06, 
        <emphasis role="italic">Debt — Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic
470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging — Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity
(Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts
in an Entity’s Own Equity</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        ,  (AU-C sec. 540)
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related
Disclosures</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        ,
“Communicating Critical Audit Matters When Reporting on Audits Conducted
in Accordance With Auditing Standards Generally Accepted in the United
States of America and the Standards of the PCAOB,” of AU-C section
9700.
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_9700_interpretation5">Interpretation No. 5</olink>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>