<root id="aag-afi5_04" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>5.04</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">5.04</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">When evaluating whether the valuation
techniques used by an entity are appropriate in the circumstances
and whether controls over valuation techniques are in place, the factors
considered by the auditor may include</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">The auditor (or auditor’s specialist) may
also independently develop one or more valuation techniques to compare
his or her output with that of the valuation techniques used by management.</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>whether the valuation techniques are commonly used
by other market participants and have been previously demonstrated
to provide a reliable estimate of prices obtained from market transactions.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>whether the valuation techniques operate as intended,
and there are no flaws in their design, particularly under extreme
conditions, and whether they have been objectively validated. Indicators
of flaws include inconsistent movements relative to benchmarks.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>whether the valuation techniques take into account
the risks inherent in the financial instrument being valued, including
counterparty creditworthiness, and own credit risk in the case of
valuation techniques used to measure financial liabilities.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>how the valuation techniques are calibrated to the
market, including the sensitivity of the valuation techniques to changes
in variables.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>whether market variables and assumptions are used
consistently and whether new conditions justify a change in the valuation
techniques, market variables, or assumptions used.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>whether sensitivity analyses indicate that valuations
would change significantly with only small or moderate changes in
assumptions.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the organizational structure, such as the existence
of an internal department responsible for developing models to value
certain instruments, particularly when Level 3 inputs are involved.
For example, a model development function that is involved in assisting
in pricing deals is less objective than one that is functionally and
organizationally segregated from the sales function.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the competence and objectivity of those responsible
for the development and application of the valuation techniques, including
management’s relative experience with particular models that may be
newly developed.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>