<root id="aag-afi10_18" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>10.18</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">10.18</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">Although the volume of derivatives transactions
is low, the entity has established controls over them. Some of JLM’s
key controls include the following:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Overall, controls over financial reporting of derivatives
transactions adequately provide segregation of duties and management
oversight.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>JLM has in place written policies regarding derivatives
transactions that were approved by the board of directors.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>The board of directors approves all derivatives transactions. </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Controls are in place to ensure that derivatives designated
as hedges meet the criteria for hedge accounting, both at inception
and on an ongoing basis. </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>JLM’s CFO prepares an analysis for review by the board
of directors that identifies</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>the objective of the hedge and the strategy for accomplishing
the objective.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the nature of the risk being hedged.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the derivative hedging instrument.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the hedged item.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>how the entity will assess hedge effectiveness. </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>JLM’s investing and financing function maintains proper
segregation of duties among dealing (committing JLM to the transaction),
settlement (initiating cash payments and accepting cash receipts),
and accounting (recording all transactions and the valuation of the
derivative).</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>The board has approved a list of top-tier investment
brokers that management may utilize for investment services.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>JLM has put in place controls and procedures for the
prevention or detection of errors, including the following:</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>Accounting entries for derivatives transactions are
reviewed by senior management of the investing and financing function
and subject to periodic review by the CFO.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Fair values are obtained from a broker-dealer and
reviewed on a monthly basis.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Adjustments to financial instruments’ general ledger
accounts are reviewed and approved by the controller.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>