<root id="aag-afi6_14" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>6.14</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">6.14</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">For a cash flow hedge of a forecasted
transaction, FASB ASC 815-20 requires management to determine that
the forecasted transaction is probable of occurring. Those principles
require that the likelihood the transaction will take place not be
based solely on management’s intent. Instead, the transaction’s probability
should be supported by observable facts and the attendant circumstances,
such as the</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">Paragraph .26 of AU-C section 330B requires
the auditor to perform audit procedures to evaluate whether the overall
presentation of the financial statements, including the related disclosures,
is in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
This includes evaluating management’s determination of whether a forecasted
transaction is probable.</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>frequency of similar past transactions.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>financial and operational ability of the entity to
carry out the transaction.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>extent of loss that could result if the transaction
does not occur.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>likelihood that transactions with substantially different
characteristics might be used to achieve the same business purpose.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>