<root id="aag-afi3_41" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>3.41</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">3.41</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">AU-C section 402B addresses the user auditor’s
responsibility for obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence
in an audit of the financial statements of a user entity. Services
provided by a service organization are relevant to an audit of a user
entity’s financial statements when those services and the controls
over them affect the user entity’s information system, including related
business processes relevant to financial reporting. An entity’s information
system relevant to financial reporting objectives includes the entity’s
accounting system and consists of the procedures and records designed
and established to</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>initiate, authorize, record, process, and report entity
transactions (as well as events and conditions) and maintain accountability
for the related assets, liabilities, and equity.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>resolve incorrect processing of transactions (for
example, automated suspense files and procedures followed to clear
suspense items out on a timely basis).</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>process and account for system overrides or bypasses
to controls.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>transfer information from transaction processing systems
to the general ledger.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>capture information relevant to financial reporting
for events and conditions other than transactions.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>ensure that information required to be disclosed by
the applicable financial reporting framework is accumulated, recorded,
processed, summarized, and appropriately reported in the financial
statements.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>