<root id="aag-afi6_presentation_and_disclosure_of" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Presentation and Disclosure of Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Presentation and Disclosure of Financial
Instruments</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi6_update_6-2">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
6-2 : Auditing Accounting
Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related
Disclosures
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In July 2020, the AICPA issued ,  (AU-C sec. 540), which supersedes , , and amends the following AU-C
sections: 
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">AU-C section 540A</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_240">Section 240</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement
Audit</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_260">Section 260</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication With Those
Charged With Governance </emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_580">Section 580</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial
Statements</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">Section 701</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Key Audit Matters in the
Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
       addresses the auditor’s responsibilities relating
to accounting estimates, including fair value accounting estimates
and related disclosures, in an audit of financial statements.
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
    </para>
    <para>
      This SAS is effective for audits of financial statements for
periods ending on or after December 15, 2023. A link to the final
SAS and other resources can be found on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <section id="aag-afi6_05" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.05</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.05</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Management’s responsibilities include
the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements
in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework. Financial reporting frameworks often require disclosures
in the financial statements to enable users of the financial statements
to make meaningful assessments of the effects of the entity’s financial
instrument activities, including the risks and uncertainties associated
with these financial instruments. The importance of disclosures regarding
the basis of measurement increases as the measurement uncertainty
of the financial instruments increases and is also affected by the
level of the fair value hierarchy.
      <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
        <para>
          See paragraphs .04 and .A2 of AU-C section 200B, .
          <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the
Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted Auditing
Standards</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_06" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.06</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.06</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In representing that the financial statements
are in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework,
management implicitly or explicitly makes assertions regarding the
presentation and disclosure of the various elements of financial statements
and related disclosures. Assertions about presentation and disclosure
encompass</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">The auditor’s procedures around auditing
disclosures are designed in consideration of these assertions.</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>occurrence and rights and obligations. Disclosed events,
transactions, and other matters have occurred and pertain to the entity.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>completeness. All disclosures that should have been
included in the financial statements have been included.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>classification and understandability. Financial information
is appropriately presented and described, and disclosures are clearly
expressed.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>accuracy and valuation. Financial and other information
are disclosed fairly and at appropriate amounts.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_assertions_about_financial_instruments" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Assertions About Financial Instruments Based on Management’s
Intent and Ability</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Assertions About Financial Instruments
Based on Management’s Intent and Ability</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi6_07" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.07</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.07</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Financial reporting frameworks may require
that management’s intent and ability be considered in valuing certain
financial instruments, as follows:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Whether debt securities are classified as held to
maturity and reported at their cost depends on management’s intent
and ability to hold them to their maturity, as well as management’s
assessment of whether it is more likely than not that they will be
required to sell the security before the recovery of its amortized
cost basis.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Whether equity securities are reported using the equity
method depends on management’s ability to significantly influence
the investee.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Whether equity securities are classified as trading
or available for sale depends on management’s intent and objectives
in investing in the financial instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_08" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.08</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.08</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In evaluating management’s intent and
ability, the auditor might</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>obtain an understanding of the process used by management
to classify financial instruments as trading, available for sale,
or held to maturity.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>for an investment accounted for using the equity method,
inquire of management regarding whether the entity has the ability
to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial
policies of the investee and evaluate the attendant circumstances
that serve as a basis for management’s conclusions.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>if the entity accounts for the investment contrary
to the presumption established by the applicable financial reporting
framework for use of the equity method, obtain sufficient appropriate
audit evidence about whether that presumption has been overcome and
whether appropriate disclosure is made regarding the reasons for not
accounting for the investment in keeping with that presumption.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>consider whether management’s activities corroborate
or conflict with its stated intent. For example, the auditor might
evaluate an assertion that management intends to hold debt securities
to their maturity by examining evidence such as documentation of management’s
strategies and sales and other historical activities with respect
to those financial instruments and similar financial instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            determine whether the applicable financial reporting
framework requires management to document its intentions and specify
the content and timeliness of that documentation. The auditor might inspect the documentation and obtain
audit evidence about its timeliness. Unlike the formal documentation
required for hedging activities, audit evidence supporting the classification
of debt and equity securities may be more informal.
            <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
              <para>
                Paragraphs 1–2 of FASB  (ASC) 320-10-25 require an investor to classify
and document the classification of debt securities into one of three
categories at their acquisition: held to maturity, available for sale,
or trading.
                <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards
Codification</emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
            <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
              <para>
                FASB ASC 825-10-05-5 permits entities to choose to measure many
financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are
not currently required to be measured at fair value. FASB ASC 825-10-50
also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed
to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement
attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. FASB ASC 825-10-50
does not eliminate disclosure requirements included in other accounting
standards, including requirements for disclosures about fair value
measurements included in FASB ASC 820, .
                <emphasis role="italic">Fair
Value Measurement</emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>determine whether management’s activities, contractual
agreements, or the entity’s financial condition provide evidence of
its ability, as follows:</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>The entity’s financial position, working capital needs,
operating results, debt agreements, guarantees, alternate sources
of liquidity, and other relevant contractual obligations, as well
as laws and regulations, may provide evidence about an entity’s ability
to hold debt financial instruments to their maturity.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Management’s cash flow projections may suggest that
it does not have the ability to hold debt financial instruments to
their maturity.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Management’s inability to obtain information from
an investee may suggest that it does not have the ability to significantly
influence the investee.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>If the entity asserts that it maintains effective
control over financial instruments transferred under a repurchase
agreement, the contractual agreement may be such that the entity actually
surrendered control over the financial instruments and, therefore,
should account for the transfer as a sale instead of a secured borrowing.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_procedures_relating_to_the" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Procedures Relating to the Presentation and Disclosure
of Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Procedures Relating to the Presentation
and Disclosure of Financial Instruments</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi6_09" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.09</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.09</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In relation to the presentation and disclosures
of financial instruments, areas of particular importance include the
following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Financial reporting frameworks generally require additional
disclosures regarding estimates and related risks and uncertainties
to supplement and explain assets, liabilities, income, and expenses.
The auditor’s focus may need to be on the disclosures relating to
risks and sensitivity analysis. Information obtained during the auditor’s
risk assessment procedures and testing of control activities may provide
evidence in order for the auditor to conclude whether the disclosures
in the financial statements are in accordance with the requirements
of the applicable financial reporting framework, such as the following:</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>The entity’s objectives and strategies for using financial
instruments, including the entity’s stated accounting policies</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The entity’s control framework for managing its risks
associated with financial instruments</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The risks and uncertainties associated with the financial
instruments</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Information may come from systems outside traditional
financial reporting systems, such as risk systems. Examples of procedures
that the auditor may choose to perform in responding to assessed risks
relative to disclosures include testing the</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>process used to derive the disclosed information.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>operating effectiveness of the controls over the data
used in the preparation of disclosures.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            In relation to financial instruments having significant
risk, even when the disclosures are in accordance with the applicable
financial reporting framework, the auditor may conclude that the disclosure
of estimation uncertainty is inadequate in light of the circumstances
and facts involved, and accordingly, the financial statements may
not achieve fair presentation. AU-C section 705B, , provides guidance on the implications for the auditor’s
opinion when the auditor believes management’s disclosures in the
financial statements are inadequate or misleading.
            <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
              <para>Paragraph .20 of AU-C section 540B requires the auditor to perform
further procedures on disclosures relating to accounting estimates
that give rise to significant risks to evaluate the adequacy of the
disclosure of estimation uncertainty in the financial statements in
the context of the applicable financial reporting framework.</para>
            </footnote>
            <emphasis role="italic">Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s
Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            Auditors may also consider whether the disclosures
are complete and understandable. (For example, all relevant information
may be included in the financial statements [or accompanying reports],
but it may be insufficiently drawn together to enable users of the
financial statements to obtain an understanding of the position, or
there may not be enough qualitative disclosure to give context to
the amounts recorded in the financial statements). For example, even
when an entity has included sensitivity analysis disclosures, the
disclosure may not fully describe the risks and uncertainties that
may arise because of changes in valuation, possible effects on debt
covenants, collateral requirements, and the entity’s liquidity. Paragraph
.12 of AU-C section 260B, , contains requirements
and guidance about communicating with those charged with governance,
including the auditor’s views about qualitative aspects of the entity’s
significant accounting practices, including accounting policies, accounting
estimates, and financial statement disclosures.
            <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication
With Those Charged With Governance</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_10" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.10</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.10</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Consideration of the appropriateness of
presentation (for example, on short-term and long-term classification)
in substantive testing of financial instruments is relevant to the
auditor’s evaluation of the presentation and disclosure.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_additional_considerations_about_hedging" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Additional Considerations About Hedging Activities</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Additional Considerations About Hedging
Activities</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi6_11" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.11</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.11</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        To account for a derivative as a hedge,
FASB  (ASC) 815 requires management, at the inception of the hedge, to
designate the derivative as a hedge and contemporaneously formally
document the hedging relationship, the entity’s risk management
objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge, and the method of
assessing the effectiveness of the hedge. In addition, to qualify
for hedge accounting, FASB ASC 815 requires that management have an
expectation, both at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing
basis, that the hedging relationship will be highly effective in achieving
the hedging strategy.
        <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
          <para>FASB ASC 815-20-25 requires formal documentation of prescribed
aspects of hedging relationships at the inception of the hedge.</para>
        </footnote>
        <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn10" label="fn 10" role="number">
          <para>
            FASB ASC 815, , requires management to periodically reassess the effectiveness
of hedging relationships whenever financial statements or earnings
are reported and at least every three months. It also requires that
all assessments of effectiveness be consistent with the risk management
strategy documented for the particular hedging relationship.
            <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_12" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.12</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.12</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor may gather audit evidence
to determine whether management complied with the hedge accounting
requirements of FASB ASC 815, including designation and documentation
requirements. In addition, the auditor may gather audit evidence to
support management’s expectation at the inception of the hedge that
the hedging relationship will be highly effective and management’s
periodic assessment of the ongoing effectiveness of the hedging relationship
as required by FASB ASC 815. </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_13" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.13</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.13</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">When the entity designates a derivative
as a fair value hedge, FASB ASC 815-25 requires that the entity adjust
the carrying amount of the hedged item for the change in the hedged
item’s fair value that is attributable to the hedged risk. The auditor
may gather audit evidence supporting the recorded change in the hedged
item’s fair value that is attributable to the hedged risk. Additionally,
the auditor may gather audit evidence to determine whether management
has properly applied FASB ASC 815-25 to the hedged item.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_14" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.14</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.14</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">For a cash flow hedge of a forecasted
transaction, FASB ASC 815-20 requires management to determine that
the forecasted transaction is probable of occurring. Those principles
require that the likelihood the transaction will take place not be
based solely on management’s intent. Instead, the transaction’s probability
should be supported by observable facts and the attendant circumstances,
such as the</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Paragraph .26 of AU-C section 330B requires
the auditor to perform audit procedures to evaluate whether the overall
presentation of the financial statements, including the related disclosures,
is in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
This includes evaluating management’s determination of whether a forecasted
transaction is probable.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>frequency of similar past transactions.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>financial and operational ability of the entity to
carry out the transaction.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>extent of loss that could result if the transaction
does not occur.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>likelihood that transactions with substantially different
characteristics might be used to achieve the same business purpose.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>