<root id="pra-sqcs_1_elements_of_a_system" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Elements of a System of Quality Control</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Elements of a System of Quality Control</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_04" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.04</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.04</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      A firm must establish and maintain a system
of quality control. The firm’s system of quality control should include
policies and procedures that address each of the following elements
of quality control identified in  of QM section 10A:
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="qm_10a_17">paragraph .17</olink>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Leadership responsibilities for quality within the
firm (the "tone at the top")</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Relevant ethical requirements</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Acceptance and continuance of client relationships
and specific engagements</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Human resources</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Engagement performance</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Monitoring</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_05" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.05</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.05</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The elements of quality control are interrelated.
For example, a firm continually assesses client relationships to comply
with relevant ethical requirements, including independence, integrity,
and objectivity, and policies and procedures related to the acceptance
and continuance of client relationships and specific engagements.
Similarly, the human resources element of quality control encompasses
criteria related to professional development, hiring, advancement,
and assignment of firm personnel to engagements, all of which affect
policies and procedures related to engagement performance. In addition,
policies and procedures related to the monitoring element of quality
control enable a firm to evaluate whether its policies and procedures
for each of the other five elements of quality control are suitably
designed and effectively applied.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_06" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.06</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.06</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Policies and procedures established by
the firm related to each element are designed to achieve reasonable
assurance with respect to the purpose of that element. Deficiencies
in policies and procedures for an element may result in not achieving
reasonable assurance with respect to the purpose of that element;
however, the system of quality control, as a whole, may still be effective
in providing the firm with reasonable assurance that the firm and
its personnel comply with professional standards and applicable regulatory
and legal requirements and that the firm or engagement partners issue
reports that are appropriate in the circumstances.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_07" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.07</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.07</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">If a firm merges, acquires, sells, or
otherwise changes a portion of its practice, the surviving firm evaluates
and, as necessary, revises, implements, and maintains firm-wide quality
control policies and procedures that are appropriate for the changed
circumstances.</para>
  </section>
</root>