<root id="aag-afi5_41" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>5.41</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">5.41</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">Regardless of the valuation method used
(including those investments reported based on an investee’s financial
results), applicable financial reporting frameworks may require recognizing
in earnings an impairment loss for a decline in fair value that is
other than temporary. Determining whether losses are other than temporary
often involves estimating the outcome of future events. Accordingly,
judgment is required in determining whether factors exist that indicate
that an impairment loss has been incurred at the end of the reporting
period. These judgments are based on subjective, as well as objective,
factors, including knowledge and experience about past and current
events and assumptions about future events. The following are examples
of such factors:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Fair value is significantly below cost, and</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>the decline is attributable to adverse conditions
specifically related to the security or conditions in an industry
or a geographic area.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the decline has existed for an extended period of
time.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>management does not possess both the intent and ability
to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for
any anticipated recovery in fair value.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>The security has been downgraded by a rating agency.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>The financial condition of the issuer or counterparty
has deteriorated.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Dividends have been reduced or eliminated, or scheduled
interest payments have not been made.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>The entity recorded losses from the security subsequent
to the end of the reporting period.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>