<root id="aag-afi_assessing_the_risk_of_material_misstatement_related_to_valuation" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Assessing the Risk of Material Misstatement Related to
Valuation</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Assessing the Risk of Material Misstatement
Related to Valuation</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi5_04" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.04</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.04</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">When evaluating whether the valuation
techniques used by an entity are appropriate in the circumstances
and whether controls over valuation techniques are in place, the factors
considered by the auditor may include</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">The auditor (or auditor’s specialist) may
also independently develop one or more valuation techniques to compare
his or her output with that of the valuation techniques used by management.</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>whether the valuation techniques are commonly used
by other market participants and have been previously demonstrated
to provide a reliable estimate of prices obtained from market transactions.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>whether the valuation techniques operate as intended,
and there are no flaws in their design, particularly under extreme
conditions, and whether they have been objectively validated. Indicators
of flaws include inconsistent movements relative to benchmarks.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>whether the valuation techniques take into account
the risks inherent in the financial instrument being valued, including
counterparty creditworthiness, and own credit risk in the case of
valuation techniques used to measure financial liabilities.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>how the valuation techniques are calibrated to the
market, including the sensitivity of the valuation techniques to changes
in variables.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>whether market variables and assumptions are used
consistently and whether new conditions justify a change in the valuation
techniques, market variables, or assumptions used.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>whether sensitivity analyses indicate that valuations
would change significantly with only small or moderate changes in
assumptions.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the organizational structure, such as the existence
of an internal department responsible for developing models to value
certain instruments, particularly when Level 3 inputs are involved.
For example, a model development function that is involved in assisting
in pricing deals is less objective than one that is functionally and
organizationally segregated from the sales function.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the competence and objectivity of those responsible
for the development and application of the valuation techniques, including
management’s relative experience with particular models that may be
newly developed.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_significant_risks" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Significant Risks</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Significant Risks</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi5_05" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.05</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.05</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s risk assessment process
may lead the auditor to identify one or more significant risks relating
to the valuation of financial instruments when any of the following
circumstances exist:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            High measurement uncertainty related to the valuation
of financial instruments (for example, those with unobservable inputs)
            <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
              <para>
                When the auditor determines that the high estimation uncertainty
related to the valuation of complex financial instruments gives rise
to a significant risk, AU-C section 540B, , requires the auditor to perform
substantive procedures and evaluate the adequacy of the disclosure
of his or her estimation uncertainty. See paragraphs .11, .15, and
.20 of AU-C section 540B.
                <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Lack of sufficient evidence to support management’s
valuation of its financial instruments</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Lack of management understanding of its financial
instruments or expertise necessary to value such instruments properly,
including the ability to determine whether valuation adjustments are
needed</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Lack of management understanding of complex requirements
in the applicable financial reporting framework relating to measurement
and disclosure of financial instruments and the inability of management
to make the judgments required to properly apply those requirements</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The significance of valuation adjustments made to
valuation technique outputs when the applicable financial reporting
framework requires or permits such adjustments.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_06" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.06</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.06</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        For accounting estimates that give rise
to significant risks, in addition to other substantive procedures
performed to meet the requirements of AU-C section 330B, , paragraph
.15– of AU-C section 540B requires the auditor to evaluate the following:
        <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed
Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">c</emphasis>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>How management has considered alternative assumptions
or outcomes and why it has rejected them or how management has otherwise
addressed measurement uncertainty in making the accounting estimate</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Whether the significant assumptions used by management
are reasonable</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>When relevant to the reasonableness of the significant
assumptions used by management or the appropriate application of the
applicable financial reporting framework, management’s intent to carry
out specific courses of action and its ability to do so</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_07" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.07</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.07</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">As markets become inactive, the change
in circumstances may lead to a move from valuation by market price
to valuation by model or may result in a change from one particular
model to another. Reacting to changes in market conditions may be
difficult if management does not have policies in place prior to their
occurrence. Management may also not possess the expertise necessary
to develop a model on an urgent basis or select the valuation technique
that may be appropriate in the circumstances. Even when valuation
techniques have been consistently used, a need exists for management
to examine the continuing appropriateness of the valuation techniques
and assumptions used for determining valuation of financial instruments.
Further, valuation techniques may have been selected in times when
reasonable market information was available, but that information
may not provide reasonable valuations in times of unanticipated stress.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_08" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.08</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.08</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The susceptibility to management bias,
whether intentional or unintentional, increases with the subjectivity
of the valuation and the degree of measurement uncertainty. For example,
management may tend to ignore observable marketplace assumptions or
data and instead use its own internally-developed assumptions if those
assumptions yield more favorable results. Even without fraudulent
intent, there may be a natural temptation to bias judgments toward
the most favorable end of what may be a wide spectrum rather than
the point in the spectrum that might be considered to be most consistent
with the applicable financial reporting framework. Changing the valuation
technique from period to period without a clear and an appropriate
reason for doing so may also be an indicator of management bias. Although
some form of management bias is inherent in subjective decisions relating
to the valuation of financial instruments, when there is intention
to mislead, management bias is fraudulent in nature.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>