<root id="aag-afi_appF_overview2" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Overview</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Overview</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">On June 16, 2016, FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13
to provide financial statement users with more decision-useful information
about the expected credit losses on financial instruments and other
commitments to extend credit held by a reporting entity at each reporting
date. Upon the effective date of this ASU, the incurred loss impairment
methodology in current generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)
is replaced with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses
and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable
information to inform credit loss estimates. </para>
  <section id="aag-afi_appF_assets_measured_at_amortized" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Assets Measured at Amortized Cost</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Assets Measured at Amortized Cost</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2016-13 eliminates the probable initial
recognition threshold under current GAAP and requires entities that
measure financial assets (or a group of financial assets) at amortized
cost basis to present such assets at the net amount expected to be
collected. The amendments in this ASU broaden the information that
an entity must consider in developing its expected credit loss estimate
for assets measured either collectively or individually. In addition
to past events and current conditions, entities should also consider
reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectibility
of the reported amount. However, an entity may revert to historical
loss information that is reflective of the contractual term (considering
the effect of prepayments) for periods that are beyond the time frame
for which the entity is able to develop reasonable and supportable
forecasts. </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">An entity may apply any method for measuring
expected credit losses as long as the entity’s method reasonably reflects
its expectations of the credit loss estimate. </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_appF_purchased_financial_assets_with" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Purchased Financial Assets With Credit Deterioration</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Purchased Financial Assets With Credit
Deterioration</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">
      ASU No. 2016-13 defines  (PCD
assets) as acquired individual financial assets (or acquired groups
of financial assets with similar risk characteristics) that as of
the date of acquisition have experienced a more-than-insignificant
deterioration in credit quality since origination, as determined by
the acquirer’s assessment. The allowance for credit losses for PCD
assets that are measured at amortized cost basis is determined in
a similar manner to other financial assets measured at amortized cost
basis. The initial allowance for credit losses is added to the purchase
price, rather than being reported as a credit loss expense. Entities
record only subsequent changes in the allowance for credit losses
as a credit loss expense for PCD assets. Furthermore, an entity should
recognize interest income for PCD assets based on the effective interest
rate, excluding the discount embedded in the purchase price that is
attributable to the acquirer’s assessment of credit losses at acquisition. 
      <emphasis role="italic">purchased financial assets with credit deterioration</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_appF_disclosures1" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Disclosures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Disclosures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">In an effort to increase users’ understanding
of underwriting standards and credit quality trends, ASU No. 2016-13
requires the current disclosure on credit quality indicators in relation
to the amortized cost of financing receivables to be further disaggregated
by year of origination (or vintage). Entities that are not public
business entities are not required to disclose the disaggregation
by year of origination. </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_appF_available_for_sale_debt" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Available-for-Sale Debt Securities</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Available-for-Sale Debt Securities</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">Entities will now be required to present
credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities as an allowance,
rather than as a permanent write-down. </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">An entity will now be able to record reversals
of credit losses on debt securities (in situations in which the estimate
of credit declines) in current period net income, thus aligning the
income statement recognition of credit losses with the reporting period
in which changes occur. However, an entity may not record an allowance
for credit losses exceeding the amount by which fair value is below
amortized cost.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_appF_purchased_debt_securities_with" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Purchased Debt Securities With Credit Deterioration</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Purchased Debt Securities With Credit
Deterioration</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">The allowance for credit losses for purchased
available-for-sale debt securities with a more-than-insignificant
amount of credit deterioration since origination is also determined
in a similar manner to other available-for-sale debt securities. However,
ASU No. 2016-13 requires an entity to add the initial allowance for
credit losses to the purchase price, rather than reporting it as a
credit loss expense. Entities record only subsequent changes in the
allowance for credit losses as a credit loss expense. Furthermore,
an entity should recognize interest income based on the effective
interest rate, excluding the discount embedded in the purchase price
that is attributable to the acquirer’s assessment of credit losses
at acquisition.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_appF_troubled_debt_restructurings" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Troubled Debt Restructurings </titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Troubled Debt Restructurings </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">The ASU does not change the definition or
derecognition guidelines for troubled debt restructurings (TDRs),
but rather changes the impairment recognized on restructuring. Credit
losses for TDRs now will be measured using the current expected credit
loss model. The ASU eliminates the current GAAP requirement to use
a discounted cash flow technique. Credit losses, including concessions
given to a borrower under a TDR, will be recognized through an allowance
account.</para>
  </section>
</root>