<root id="aag-afi_appF_other_simplifications_of_hedge" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Other Simplifications of Hedge Accounting Guidance</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Other Simplifications of Hedge Accounting
Guidance</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">The amendments alter effectiveness testing
as follows:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>In instances in which initial quantitative testing
is required, an entity may perform subsequent assessments of hedge
effectiveness qualitatively. An entity that makes this election is
required to verify and document on a quarterly basis that the facts
and circumstances related to the hedging relationship have not changed
such that the entity can assert qualitatively that the hedging relationship
was and continues to be highly effective. An entity may elect to perform
qualitative assessments on a hedge-by-hedge basis.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>For purposes of assessing whether the qualifying criteria
for the critical terms match method are met for a group of forecasted
transactions, an entity may assume that the hedging derivative matures
at the same time as the forecasted transactions if both the derivative
maturity and the forecasted transactions occur within the same 31-day
period or fiscal month.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Entities will be able to perform the initial prospective
quantitative assessment of hedge effectiveness at any time after hedge
designation, but no later than the first quarterly effectiveness testing
date, using data applicable as of the date of hedge inception.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>To provide additional relief on the timing of hedge
documentation, private companies that are not financial institutions
and not-for-profit entities (except for not-for-profit entities that
have issued, or are a conduit bond obligor for, securities that are
traded, listed, or quoted on an exchange or an over-the-counter market)
may select the method of assessing hedge effectiveness, and perform
the initial quantitative effectiveness assessment and all quarterly
hedge effectiveness assessments before the date on which the next
interim (if applicable) or annual financial statements are available
to be issued. This incremental relief does not affect the simplified
hedge accounting approach for private companies.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>If an entity that applies the shortcut method determines
that use of that method was not or no longer is appropriate, the entity
may apply a long-haul method for assessing hedge effectiveness as
long as the hedge is highly effective and the entity documents at
inception which long-haul methodology it will use.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>