<root id="aag-afi_appE" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Appendix E — Information About the Zero-Coupon Valuation
Model (Ref: par. 1.39)</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Appendix E</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">
      Information About the Zero-Coupon
Valuation Model (Ref: )
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi1_39">par. 1.39</olink>
    </subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    <emphasis role="italic">This appendix is
nonauthoritative and is included for informational purposes only.</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    This appendix provides an overview of how
to evaluate fair values calculated by an entity using the zero-coupon
method. Although this model ordinarily may involve complex calculations,
the following illustrations focus only on the elements of the calculations
that are typically most relevant to auditors. Refer to guidance in
AU-C section 500B, , when evaluating fair values derived by management’s specialist.
    <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
    <footnote id="aag-afi_appE_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
      <para>
        All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
        <emphasis role="italic">
          <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </footnote>
    <footnote id="aag-afi_appE_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
      <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
    </footnote>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">The following table discusses evaluating
the fair value of interest rate swaps derived using the zero-coupon
method:</para>
  <table frame="all" id="aag-afi_appE_table1" role="ps_table_center">
    <title/>
    <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
      <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1.51in"/>
      <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="4.46in"/>
      <tbody>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" valign="top">
            <para>What is it?</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" valign="top">
            <para>
              The  is
a present value model in which the net settlements from the swap are
estimated and discounted back to their current value. Like any present
value model, key variables include the following:
              <emphasis role="italic">zero-coupon method</emphasis>
            </para>
            <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
              <listitem>
                <para>Timing of the cash flows</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>Discount rate</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>Estimated net settlement cash flows</para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry>
            <para>Who uses it?</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" valign="top">
            <para>The zero-coupon method for estimating the fair value of swaps
is not the only acceptable method. However, most other methods use
a present value-based model, and the assumptions would be similar.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry>
            <para>What are the key assumptions?</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" valign="top">
            <para>The timing of the cash flows usually is a contractual matter
that will likely be easy to verify. For the zero-coupon method, the
discount rates used are the spot interest rates implied by the current
yield curve for hypothetical zero-coupon bonds due on the date of
each future net settlement on the swap. These rates, too, will likely
be easy to corroborate. Difficulties arise in estimating the amount
of future cash flows.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry>
            <para>More about estimating future cash flows.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" valign="top">
            <para>Suppose that ABC entered into an agreement to swap payments
on a fixed-rate liability for a variable rate. If interest rates decline,
ABC will receive a net positive cash flow from the swap because the
amount received on the fixed rate will be greater than the amount
due on the variable rate. The opposite is true if rates increase.
Thus, the future net settlements are a function of the future price
of the underlying, in this case, interest rates. The zero-coupon method
simplifies the estimate of future cash flows by calculating the net
settlement that would be required if future interest rates are equal
to the rates implied by the current yield curve. Any changes in the
yield curve are accounted for prospectively.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry>
            <para>How might the auditor audit the fair value of a swap derived
using the zero-coupon method?</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" valign="top">
            <para>The audit approach would be the same as for any other present
value-based estimate. The auditor focuses on the discount rate and
the estimate of future cash flows.</para>
            <para>Of the two, the future cash flows usually have the bigger effect
on the final estimate of fair value.</para>
            <para>Understand the assumptions underlying the discount rate and,
to the extent possible, verify the objective elements of this rate.</para>
            <para>Understand the assumptions underlying the estimate of future
cash flows. Examine management’s documentation to see whether these
assumptions are adequately supported.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
      </tbody>
    </tgroup>
  </table>
</root>