<root id="aag-afi11_auditing_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Auditing Considerations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Auditing Considerations</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi11_description_of_the_entity" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Description of the Entity</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Entity</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi11_23" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.23</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.23</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Austin-Jhanes is a U.S. manufacturer that
sells its products both domestically and outside the United States.
Its foreign sales are denominated in foreign currencies, although
its functional currency is the U.S. dollar.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_24" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.24</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.24</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The entity uses derivatives regularly
to hedge forecasted foreign currency-denominated sales and purchases
of raw materials. Derivatives are used to a lesser extent for management
of U.S. interest rate risk (for example, converting fixed-rate debt
to floating debt using interest rate swaps). (For purposes of this
case study, only the accounting for the hedging of a forecasted foreign
currency-denominated sale is illustrated.) Derivatives are not used
for investment purposes.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_25" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.25</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.25</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The board of directors has authorized
management of Austin-Jhanes to enter into derivatives for hedging
purposes, and the board receives periodic reports on the intent of
usage, as well as hedge effectiveness.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_26" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.26</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.26</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">All derivatives transactions are executed
through a centralized group of traders that reports to the CFO. The
traders and CFO are very knowledgeable about derivatives. There is
a formal risk management process for derivatives. Austin-Jhanes has
systems in place to monitor the risks being hedged, as well as the
ongoing effectiveness of the hedges. The trading desk executes derivatives
transactions only with counterparties that have been approved after
careful assessment of creditworthiness. There are limits on the credit
exposure to any one counterparty and the extent to which derivatives
can be used to hedge a given exposure.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_27" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.27</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.27</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        . Because of senior management’s integrity and ethical values, its
commitment to competence, its active involvement with the business,
its philosophy and operating style, and the operating structure it
has imposed, Austin-Jhanes’ overall control environment is sound.
        <emphasis role="italic">Control environment</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_28" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.28</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.28</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        . Austin-Jhanes’ CFO conducts weekly meetings with the derivatives
traders to discuss the financial markets generally and to assess the
entity’s position in derivatives, including ongoing hedge effectiveness.
This discussion includes an assessment of the valuation of the derivatives,
as well as the hedged exposures, with particular emphasis on derivatives
and exposures that are not exchange traded or are traded in a broad
interbank market. Sales forecasts, significant forecasted transactions,
and other issues also are discussed in order to plan for required
upcoming hedging activities. The use of new types of derivatives or
the execution of transactions with new counterparties must be discussed
with, and approved by, the CFO.
        <emphasis role="italic">Risk assessment</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_29" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.29</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.29</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        . Control activities include, among other things, the following:
        <emphasis role="italic">Control activities</emphasis>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Controls have been implemented with respect to control
objectives of</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>completeness of records.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>validity of records.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>restricted access to assets.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            Segregation of the accounting function from trade
authorization and execution. The accounting department is responsible
for cash and derivatives position reconciliations between the accounting
and trading records and broker or counterparty statements. Quarterly,
the controller reviews hedging activities for compliance with the
requirements of FASB ASC 815, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives
and Hedging</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Data files with such information as counterparty limits
are maintained apart from the traders. The CFO authorizes any changes
to these files. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Austin-Jhanes’ derivatives trading system has an automated
interface with the general ledger and updates the general ledger monthly.
Movements of cash associated with derivatives transactions are authorized
and executed by the treasurer’s department, which is separate from
the derivatives trading group.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Austin-Jhanes’ derivatives trading, sales, accounting,
and other transaction processing activities are highly automated.
There are effective general computer controls at the data centers
that process the entity’s transactions and other information.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_30" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.30</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.30</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        . The CFO and controller receive monthly reports
summarizing derivatives transactions for the period and the positions
at the end of the month. (See the discussion of monitoring controls
for descriptions of this and other reports.)
        <emphasis role="italic">Information and
communication</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_31" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.31</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.31</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The CFO advises the audit committee at
its quarterly meetings on the status of the entity’s derivatives positions,
realized and unrealized gains, compliance with Austin-Jhanes’ derivatives
policy, and any other information that would be useful for the audit
committee in carrying out its responsibilities.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_32" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.32</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.32</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The notes to the entity’s financial statements
contain a description of the entity’s accounting policy for derivatives
and other information required by the applicable financial reporting
framework. </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_33" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.33</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.33</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        . The CFO and controller perform monthly reviews of Austin-Jhanes’
performance in using derivatives, including their effectiveness, and,
in the case of hedges of forecasted transactions, whether the forecasted
transaction continues to meet the requirements for hedge accounting.
        <emphasis role="italic">Monitoring</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_34" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.34</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.34</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The CFO and controller receive monthly
reports that provide information that enables them to identify any
material breakdowns in controls, problems with the underlying systems,
or possible material misstatements in the information. The reports
include</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>realized and unrealized gain or loss on derivatives
and hedged exposures, as well as a statistical measurement of correlation
of changes in their values.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>transaction volumes and trends.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>derivatives positions by exchange; counterpart; or
type of instrument, with a comparison with established limits. The
CFO receives notification as limits are approached. The system does
not allow limits to be exceeded without the CFO’s approval.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>information on various reconciliations, including
an aging of reconciling items and resolution status.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_summary_of_accounting" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Summary of Accounting</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Summary of Accounting</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi11_35" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.35</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.35</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Transactions in derivatives are material
to the entity’s financial statements. Austin-Jhanes uses foreign currency
options to hedge forecasted foreign sales. Under FASB ASC 815, it
must record the fair value of the options in its statement of financial
position. Changes in the time value of the options are recorded currently
in earnings. Changes in the options’ intrinsic value, to the extent
they are effective as a hedge, are recorded in other comprehensive
income.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_types_of_potential_misstatements" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Types of Potential Misstatements</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Types of Potential Misstatements</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi11_36" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.36</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.36</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The types of potential misstatements are</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>improper use of hedge accounting under FASB ASC 815,
including the following:</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>Failure to properly designate and document the hedge
at its inception</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Incorrect assessment of hedge effectiveness, including
the improper inclusion or exclusion of the time value of the options</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Improper recording of gains and losses relating to
the transaction (for example, transactions recorded in the improper
amount or wrong accounting period)</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Improper inclusion or exclusion of the time value
of the options in the measure of hedge effectiveness</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>failure to record all derivatives transactions.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>inaccurate determination of fair values of derivatives.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_inherent_risk_factors_to" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for This Transaction
in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for
This Transaction in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi11_37" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.37</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.37</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The following inherent risk factors have
been identified:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Based on the preceding factors, the auditor
determines inherent risk to be high.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Because small amounts of cash are required to enter
into the options, there is an increased inherent risk that the options
will not be identified.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The complexity of accounting for the put options and
hedging activities leads to an increased inherent risk that the transactions
will not be accounted for in conformity with the applicable financial
reporting framework.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The options are not exchange traded, which increases
the inherent risk that valuations will be inappropriate.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_control_risk_and_timing_of" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Control Risk and Timing of Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Control Risk and Timing of Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi11_38" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.38</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.38</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Control risk has been assessed as low
or moderate for certain assertions and as high for others:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . For the assertions about existence or occurrence, completeness,
and rights and obligations, control risk will be assessed as low or
moderate. This is considered the most effective and efficient approach,
given the controls in place, such as the performance of reconciliations
and monitoring of hedge effectiveness. Tests of details of the recording
of transactions in the general ledger in accordance with FASB ASC
815 and confirmation procedures will take place prior to year-end.
At year-end, various reconciliations, significant activity, and hedge
effectiveness will be reviewed, and the continuance of controls tested
will be reviewed through inquiry and observation. Paragraph .18 of
AU-C section 330B, , states that irrespective of the assessed risk of material
misstatements, the auditor should design and perform substantive procedures
for all relevant assertions related to each material class of transactions,
account balance, and disclosure. Because effective internal controls generally reduce but
do not eliminate risk of material misstatement, tests of controls
reduce but do not eliminate the need for substantive procedures. In addition, analytical procedures alone may not be sufficient
in some cases.
            <emphasis role="italic">Control risk as low or moderate</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures
in Response to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
            <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
              <para>
                All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
                <emphasis role="italic">
                  <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
                </emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
            <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn10" label="fn 10" role="number">
              <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
            </footnote>
            <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn11" label="fn 11" role="number">
              <para>
                Paragraph .A9 of AU-C section 330B, .
                <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed Risks and Evaluating
the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . For the assertions about valuation and presentation and disclosure,
control risk is assessed as high due to the efficiency with which
the valuation of derivatives at year-end can be tested. Also, adequacy
of presentation and disclosure can only be assessed at year-end.
            <emphasis role="italic">Control risk as high</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_materiality" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Materiality</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Materiality</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi11_39" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.39</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.39</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The transaction is considered material.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_design_of_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Design of Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Design of Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi11_40" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>11.40</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">11.40</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor defined the following objectives
and related procedures for the audit of assertions about put options
hedging forecasted sales:</para>
      <table frame="all" id="aag-afi11_table8" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.13in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="2.50in"/>
          <colspec colname="c5" colwidth="1.16in"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="bold">
                    <emphasis role="italic">Audit Objective</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="bold">
                    <emphasis role="italic">Procedures, Including
Those Designed to Gather Audit Evidence About the Operating Effectiveness
of Controls</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="bold">
                    <emphasis role="italic">Timing</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The purchase of options was properly authorized.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>For a sample of transactions, review for proper authorization.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Interim date</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" morerows="2" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The foreign currency options exist, and the entity’s rights
and obligations relating to the options have been properly classified
and recorded.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Confirm details of related transactions and derivatives.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                <para>Interim date</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>For selected transactions, trace to proper recording
in the trading system and general ledger, with emphasis on classification
(that is, earnings or other comprehensive income).</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                <para>Interim date</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Review general ledger, trading system, and cash reconciliations.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Year-end</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" morerows="2" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>All options transactions have been captured and recorded in
the entity’s information in the proper accounting period.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Test controls on completeness (for example, independent
review of deal information and reconciliations).</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                <para>Interim date</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry rowsep="0">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>For a sample of transactions, review for recording
in the proper period.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
              <entry rowsep="0">
                <para>Year-end</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Send confirmations to dealers, and compare options
in the responses to amounts recorded.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Year-end</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" morerows="3" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Hedge accounting has been properly applied.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Review open options contracts, and determine whether
forecasted foreign currency-denominated transactions qualify for hedge
accounting.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                <para>Interim date and year-end</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Test the process by which hedge effectiveness is determined
and monitored.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                <para>Interim date and year-end</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Determine that options transactions continue to qualify
as foreign currency cash flow hedges.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                <para>Interim date and year-end</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Determine that the fair value of the options and changes
in the fair value thereof are properly reported in the financial statements.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Year-end</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" morerows="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>
                  The options and hedged transaction are measured at fair value,
consistent with the requirements of FASB  (ASC) 815, .
                  <emphasis role="italic">Accounting
Standards Codification</emphasis>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>By reference to independent sources, verify the valuation
of the options.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                <para>Year-end</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Test valuation of the hedged transactions.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Year-end</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Presentation and disclosure are appropriate.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Read the financial statements, and compare the presentation
and disclosure with the requirements of FASB ASC 815.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Year-end</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>