<root id="aag-afi4_additional_considerations_about_alternative" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Additional Considerations About Alternative Investments</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Additional Considerations About Alternative
Investments</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi4_36" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.36</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.36</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Alternative investments represent investments
for which a readily determinable fair value does not exist. The FASB  (ASC) glossary
defines  as follows:
      <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">readily determinable fair value</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      The fair value of an equity security is readily determinable
if sales prices or bid-and-asked quotations are currently available
on a securities exchange registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) or in the over-the-counter market, provided that
those prices or quotations for the over-the-counter market are publicly
reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
Quotations systems or by OTC Markets Group Inc. Restricted stock meets
that definition if the restriction terminates within one year.
      <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
      <tab/>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      The fair value of an equity security traded only in a foreign
market is readily determinable if that foreign market is of a breadth
and scope comparable to one of the U.S. markets referred to previously.
      <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
      <tab/>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      The fair value of an equity security that is an investment
in a mutual fund or in a structure similar to a mutual fund (that
is, a limited partnership or a venture capital entity) is readily
determinable if the fair value per share (unit) is determined and
published and is the basis for current transactions.
      <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
      <tab/>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_37" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.37</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.37</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      These alternative investments include
investments that are not listed on national exchanges or OTC markets
or for which quoted market prices are not available from sources such
as financial publications, the exchanges, or NASDAQ. These investments,
as discussed in , “Applicability of Practical
Expedient,” include hedge funds, private equity funds, real estate
funds, venture capital funds, commodity funds, offshore fund vehicles,
and funds of funds. Alternative investments may be structured as limited
partnerships, limited liability corporations, trusts, or corporations.
      <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_2220_18">Technical
Questions and Answers section 2220.18</olink>
      <footnote id="aag-afi_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
        <para>
          All Q&amp;A sections can be found in .
          <emphasis role="italic">
            <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tpa">Technical Questions and Answers</olink>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_38" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.38</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.38</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">When alternative investments are required
to be accounted for at fair value, the valuation assertion may involve
significant judgment by management in the assessment of the estimate
of fair value of the investment. The more complex or illiquid the
investment or the lack of sufficient management processes and records
over valuation, the greater the risk of misstatement and the more
persuasive audit evidence needs to be obtained by the auditor.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_39" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.39</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.39</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s understanding of the reliability
of the process used by the investor entity’s management to determine
estimated fair value is an important element in support of the resulting
amounts and, therefore, affects the nature, timing, and extent of
audit procedures. The auditor may test management’s fair value estimate
as of the balance sheet date by using one or more of the following
approaches. The approach(es) taken may not be the same for all alternative
investments in an investor entity’s portfolio because the nature of
the underlying investments and associated risk, as well as the information
available to management and the auditor, likely will be different
for each alternative investment. The higher the assessed risk of material
misstatement, the greater the need for the auditor to utilize a combination
of the following approaches:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>
          . If the auditor determines that the nature and extent of auditing
procedures should include testing the measurement of the investor
entity’s investment, simply receiving a confirmation from the alternative
investment of the entity’s investments in financial instruments, either
in aggregate or on a security-by-security basis, does not, in and
of itself, constitute sufficient appropriate audit evidence in addressing
the valuation assertion. The extent of the additional audit procedures
is directly related to the assessed risk of material misstatement
of the financial statements.
          <emphasis role="italic">Confirm the alternative investment</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          . A confirmation on a security-by-security basis may provide support
of the data used by the investor’s management in its valuation process.
In drafting a confirmation, the auditor may consider requesting a
description of each investment, ownership percentage or shares owned,
and estimated fair value. If detailed information is not available,
the auditor may look to the other data that management used in its
valuation and perform tests on such data. The nature of the tests
depends on the types of data used by management and the auditor’s
assessment of the risk of material misstatement of the financial statements.
          <emphasis role="italic">Review and test the investor
entity’s significant assumptions and the underlying data in its valuation
or analysis of the assumptions and data obtained from the fund manager</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          . If audited financial statements
of the alternative investment are available as of the date of the
investor entity’s year-end, and the alternative investment follows
fair value accounting, the audited financial statements and an accompanying
auditor’s report may provide significant audit evidence regarding
the valuation of the investment. However, the investor entity and
fund often have different fiscal year-ends. In lower- or moderate-risk
situations, the auditor might be able to obtain the fund’s audited
financial statements as of the fund’s fiscal year-end and perform
(or arrange to have the fund’s auditor perform) additional procedures
to test the transactions and changes in fair value between the fund’s
fiscal year-end and the investor’s fiscal year-end.
          <emphasis role="italic">Reconcile to audited financial
statements as of the same date</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          . Evidence of an actual transaction,
such as an investment in, or liquidation of, a portion of its alternative
investment as of a date close to the investor entity’s fiscal year-end,
may provide information for management to support the valuation of
the alternative investment. The auditor may consider how often settlements
occur and the terms used to determine the value of the settlement.
Issues to consider include whether the process used for the settlement
is the same process used for financial reporting; whether there are
holdbacks or potential true-ups subsequent to the balance sheet date;
and the possibility that the parties to the transactions were not
both willing buyers and sellers, such as in a distress sale.
          <emphasis role="italic">Review transactions at or
near the balance sheet date</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_40" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.40</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.40</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">If management estimates the fair value
of a significant portion of its alternative investments as of an interim
date, management will need a robust process and strong internal control
over the roll-forward period to the balance sheet date. Because the
valuation assertion embedded in the financial statements is as of
the balance sheet date, management needs to have the ability to obtain
sufficient information to record the investments at estimated fair
value as of the balance sheet date, including changes in the estimated
fair value during the roll-forward period. In this situation, the
auditor may test both the estimation process as of the interim date
and the roll-forward process.</para>
  </section>
</root>