<root id="aag-afi11_38" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>11.38</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">11.38</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">Control risk has been assessed as low
or moderate for certain assertions and as high for others:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . For the assertions about existence or occurrence, completeness,
and rights and obligations, control risk will be assessed as low or
moderate. This is considered the most effective and efficient approach,
given the controls in place, such as the performance of reconciliations
and monitoring of hedge effectiveness. Tests of details of the recording
of transactions in the general ledger in accordance with FASB ASC
815 and confirmation procedures will take place prior to year-end.
At year-end, various reconciliations, significant activity, and hedge
effectiveness will be reviewed, and the continuance of controls tested
will be reviewed through inquiry and observation. Paragraph .18 of
AU-C section 330B, , states that irrespective of the assessed risk of material
misstatements, the auditor should design and perform substantive procedures
for all relevant assertions related to each material class of transactions,
account balance, and disclosure. Because effective internal controls generally reduce but
do not eliminate risk of material misstatement, tests of controls
reduce but do not eliminate the need for substantive procedures. In addition, analytical procedures alone may not be sufficient
in some cases.
        <emphasis role="italic">Control risk as low or moderate</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures
in Response to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
          <para>
            All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
            <emphasis role="italic">
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
        <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn10" label="fn 10" role="number">
          <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
        </footnote>
        <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn11" label="fn 11" role="number">
          <para>
            Paragraph .A9 of AU-C section 330B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed Risks and Evaluating
the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . For the assertions about valuation and presentation and disclosure,
control risk is assessed as high due to the efficiency with which
the valuation of derivatives at year-end can be tested. Also, adequacy
of presentation and disclosure can only be assessed at year-end.
        <emphasis role="italic">Control risk as high</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>