<root id="aag-afi2" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Chapter 2 — General Auditing Considerations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Chapter 2</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">General Auditing Considerations</subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi2_update_2-1">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
2-1 : Audit Evidence
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In July 2020, the AICPA issued ,  (AU-C sec. 500), which supersedes AU-C section 500A, , and amends the following AU-C sections: 
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 142</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi2_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
        <para>
          All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
          <emphasis role="italic">
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_315">Section 315</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment
and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_330">Section 330</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response
to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_530">Section 530</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Sampling</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">Section
540A</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates,
Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
       explains what constitutes audit evidence in an
audit of financial statements and sets out attributes of information
that are taken into account by the auditor when evaluating information
to be used as audit evidence.
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">SAS No. 142</olink>
    </para>
    <para>
      This SAS is effective for
audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after December
15, 2022. A link to the final SAS and other resources can be found
on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi2_update_2-2">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
2-2 : Auditing Accounting
Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related
Disclosures
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In July 2020, the AICPA issued ,  (AU-C sec. 540), which supersedes , , and amends the following AU-C
sections: 
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">AU-C section 540A</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_240">Section 240</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement
Audit</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_260">Section 260</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication With Those
Charged With Governance </emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_580">Section 580</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial
Statements</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">Section 701</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Key Audit Matters in the
Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
       addresses the auditor’s responsibilities relating
to accounting estimates, including fair value accounting estimates
and related disclosures, in an audit of financial statements.
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
    </para>
    <para>
      This SAS is effective for audits of financial statements for
periods ending on or after December 15, 2023. A link to the final
SAS and other resources can be found on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <section id="aag-afi2_01" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>2.01</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">2.01</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Certain factors may make auditing financial
instruments particularly challenging. For example</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">These factors may cause risks and relevant
facts to be obscured, which may affect the auditor’s assessment of
the risks of material misstatement, and unidentified risks can emerge
rapidly, especially in adverse market conditions.</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>it may be difficult for the auditor to understand
the nature of financial instruments and what they are used for and
the risks to which the entity is exposed.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>market sentiment and liquidity can change quickly,
placing pressure on management to manage its exposures effectively.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>evidence supporting valuation may be difficult to
obtain.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>individual payments associated with certain financial
instruments may be significant, which may increase the risk of misappropriation
of assets.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the amounts recorded in the financial statements relating
to financial instruments may not be significant, but significant risks
and exposures associated with these financial instruments may exist.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>a few employees may exert significant influence on
the entity’s financial instrument transactions, in particular when
their compensation arrangements are tied to revenue or profit from
financial instruments, and possible undue reliance on these individuals
by others within the entity may exist.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi2_professional_skepticism" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Professional Skepticism</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">
        Professional Skepticism
        <footnote id="aag-afi2_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
          <para>
            Paragraph .17 of AU-C section 200B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of
an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted Auditing Standards</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi2_02" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>2.02</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">2.02</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Professional skepticism is necessary to
the critical assessment of audit evidence and assists the auditor
in remaining alert for possible indications of management bias. This
includes questioning contradictory audit evidence and the reliability
of documents, responses to inquiries, and other information obtained
from management and those charged with governance. It also includes
being alert to conditions that may indicate possible misstatement
due to error or fraud and considering the sufficiency and appropriateness
of audit evidence obtained in light of the circumstances.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi2_03" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>2.03</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">2.03</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Exercising professional skepticism is
required in all circumstances, and the need for professional skepticism
increases with the complexity of financial instruments, such as with
regard to the following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Evaluating whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence
has been obtained, which can be particularly challenging when models
are used or in determining if markets are inactive</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Evaluating management’s judgments and the potential
for management bias in applying the entity’s applicable financial
reporting framework, in particular management’s choice of valuation
techniques, use of assumptions in valuation techniques, and addressing
circumstances in which the auditor’s judgments and management’s judgments
differ</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Drawing conclusions based on the audit evidence obtained
(for example assessing the reasonableness of valuations prepared by
management’s specialists and evaluating whether disclosures in the
financial statements achieve fair presentation).</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi2_planning_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Planning Considerations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">
        Planning Considerations
        <footnote id="aag-afi2_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
          <para>
            AU-C section 300B, , addresses the auditor’s responsibility to plan an audit of financial
statements.
            <emphasis role="italic">Planning an Audit</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi2_04" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>2.04</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">2.04</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s focus in planning the audit
procedures related to financial instruments is primarily on</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>understanding the accounting and disclosure requirements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>understanding the financial instruments to which the
entity is exposed and their purpose and risks.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>determining whether specialized skills and knowledge
are needed in the audit.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>understanding and evaluating the system of internal
control in light of the entity’s financial instrument transactions
and the information systems that fall within the scope of the audit.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>understanding the nature, role, and activities of
the internal audit function.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>understanding management’s process for valuing financial
instruments, including whether management has used a pricing source,
valuation specialist or service organization.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>assessing and responding to the risk of material misstatement.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi2_understanding_the_accounting_and" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Understanding the Accounting and Disclosure Requirements</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Understanding the Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi2_05" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>2.05</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">2.05</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Paragraph .08 of AU-C section 540B, , requires the auditor to obtain an understanding of the
requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework relevant
to accounting estimates, including related disclosures and any regulatory
requirements. The requirements of the applicable financial reporting
framework regarding financial instruments may themselves be complex
and require extensive disclosures. Reading this Audit Guide is not
a substitute for a full understanding of all the requirements of the
applicable financial reporting framework.
        <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting
Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related
Disclosures</emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi2_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
          <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi2_understanding_the_financial_instruments" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Understanding the Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Understanding the Financial Instruments</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi2_06" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>2.06</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">2.06</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The characteristics of financial instruments
may obscure certain elements of risk and exposure. Obtaining an understanding
of the instruments in which the entity has invested or to which it
is exposed, including the characteristics of the instruments, helps
the auditor identify whether</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>important aspects of a transaction are missing or
inaccurately recorded.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the risks inherent in them are fully understood and
managed by the entity.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the instruments are valued using an appropriate valuation
technique.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the financial instruments are appropriately classified
into current and noncurrent assets and liabilities.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi2_07" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>2.07</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">2.07</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Examples of matters that the auditor may
consider when obtaining an understanding of the entity’s financial
instruments include</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Inquiries of the internal audit function
and risk management function, if such functions exist, and discussions
with those charged with governance may assist the auditor in obtaining
this understanding.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>the types of financial instruments to which the entity
is exposed.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the purpose for which they are used.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>management’s and, when appropriate, those charged
with governance’s understanding of the financial instruments, their
use, and the accounting requirements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>their exact terms and characteristics so that their
implications can be fully understood and, in particular, when transactions
are linked, the overall effect of the financial instrument transactions.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>how they fit into the entity’s overall risk management
strategy.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi2_08" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>2.08</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">2.08</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In some cases, a contract, including a
contract for a nonfinancial instrument, may contain a derivative.
Some financial reporting frameworks permit or require such embedded
derivatives to be separated from the host contract in some circumstances.
Understanding management’s process for identifying and accounting
for embedded derivatives will assist the auditor in understanding
the risks to which the entity is exposed.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi2_using_those_with_specialized" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Using Those With Specialized Skills and Knowledge in
the Audit</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">
        Using Those With Specialized Skills
and Knowledge in the Audit
        <footnote id="aag-afi2_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
          <para>
            When such a person’s expertise is in auditing and accounting,
regardless of whether the person is from within, or external to, the
firm, this person is considered to be part of the engagement team
and is subject to the requirements of AU-C section 220B, . When such a
person’s expertise is in a field other than accounting or auditing,
such person is considered to be an auditor’s specialist, and the provisions
of AU-C section 620B, , apply. AU-C section 620B explains
that distinguishing between specialized areas of accounting or auditing
and expertise in another field will be a matter of professional judgment,
but it notes that the distinction may be made between expertise in
methods of accounting for financial instruments (accounting and auditing
expertise) and expertise in complex valuation techniques for financial
instruments (expertise in a field other than accounting or auditing).
            <emphasis role="italic">Quality Control for an Engagement Conducted in Accordance
With Generally Accepted Auditing Standards</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Using the Work of an
Auditor’s Specialist</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi2_09" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>2.09</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">2.09</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        A key consideration in audits involving
financial instruments, particularly complex financial instruments,
is the competence of the auditor. Paragraph .16 of AU-C section 220B, , requires the
engagement partner to be satisfied that the engagement team and any
auditor’s specialists who are not part of the engagement team, collectively,
have the appropriate competence and capabilities to perform the audit
engagement in accordance with professional standards and applicable
legal and regulatory requirements to enable an auditor’s report to
be issued that is appropriate in the circumstances. Further, paragraphs
.11–.15 of AU-C section 220B address the auditor’s responsibilities
with respect to relevant ethical requirements and acceptance and continuance
of client relationships and audit engagements.  provides examples of
the types of matters that may be relevant to the auditor’s considerations
in the context of financial instruments.
        <emphasis role="italic">Quality Control for an Engagement Conducted in Accordance
With Generally Accepted Auditing Standards</emphasis>
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi2_10">Paragraph 2.10</olink>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi2_10" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>2.10</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">2.10</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Accordingly, auditing financial instruments
may require the involvement of one or more specialists in the areas
of, for example</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>understanding the financial instruments used by the
entity and their characteristics, including their level of complexity.
Using specialized skills and knowledge may be needed in checking whether
all aspects of the financial instrument and related considerations
have been captured in the financial statements and in evaluating whether
adequate disclosure in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework has been made when disclosure of risks is required.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>understanding the applicable financial reporting framework,
especially when areas are known to be subject to differing interpretations,
or practice is inconsistent or developing.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>understanding the legal, regulatory, and tax implications
resulting from the financial instruments, including whether the contracts
are enforceable by the entity (for example, reviewing the underlying
contracts), which may require specialized skills and knowledge.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>assessing the risks inherent in a financial instrument.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>assisting the engagement team in gathering evidence
to evaluate management’s valuations or to develop a point estimate
or range, especially when fair value is determined by a complex model;
when markets are inactive, and data and assumptions are difficult
to obtain; when unobservable inputs are used; or when management has
used a specialist.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>evaluating IT controls, especially in entities with
a high volume of financial instruments. In such entities, IT may be
highly complex (for example, when significant information about those
financial instruments is transmitted, processed, maintained, or accessed
electronically). In addition, it may include relevant services provided
by a service organization.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi2_11" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>2.11</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">2.11</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        The nature and use of particular types
of financial instruments, the complexities associated with accounting
and auditing requirements, and market conditions may lead to a need
for the engagement team to consult with other accounting and audit professionals from within
or outside the firm with relevant technical accounting or auditing
expertise and experience, taking into account factors such as the
following:
        <footnote id="aag-afi2_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
          <para>
            Paragraph .20 of AU-C section
220B requires the engagement partner to be satisfied that members
of the engagement team have undertaken appropriate consultation during
the course of the engagement, both within the engagement team and
between the engagement team and others at the appropriate level within
or outside the firm.
            <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>The capabilities and competence of the engagement
team, including the experience of the members of the engagement team</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The attributes of the financial instruments used by
the entity</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The identification of unusual circumstances or risks
in the engagement, as well as the need for professional judgment,
particularly with respect to materiality and significant risks</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Market conditions</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>