<root id="aag-afi_appF_asu_no__202003" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2020-03, Codification Improvements to Financial
Instruments</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2020-03, Codification
Improvements to Financial Instruments</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">In March 2020, FASB issued ASU No. 2020-03
to clarify or improve the codification.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2020-03 clarifies or addresses specific
issues as follows:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . The amendments clarify that all entities are
required to provide the fair value option disclosures in paragraphs
24–32 of FASB ASC 825-10-50.
        <emphasis role="italic">Fair value option disclosures
(issue 1)</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         FASB ASC 820-10-35-2A(g) and FASB ASC 820-10-35-18L are amended
to include the phrase nonfinancial items accounted for as derivatives
under FASB ASC 815 to be consistent with the previous amendments to
FASB ASC 820-10-35 that were made by ASU No. 2018-09, .
        <emphasis role="italic">Applicability of portfolio
exception in FASB ASC 820 to nonfinancial items (issue 2).</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Codification Improvements</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments clarify
that the disclosure requirements in FASB ASC 320 apply to the disclosure
requirements in FASB ASC 942,  for depository and lending institutions.
        <emphasis role="italic">Disclosures for depository
and lending institutions (issue 3).</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Financial Services
— Depository and Lending</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments improve the understandability of the
guidance.
        <emphasis role="italic">Cross-reference to line-of-credit
or revolving-debt arrangements guidance in FASB ASC 470-50 (issue
4).</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments improve the understandability of the guidance.
        <emphasis role="italic">Cross-reference to new asset
value practical expedient in FASB ASC 820-10 (issue 5).</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . The amendments clarify that
the contractual term of a new investment in a lease determined in
accordance with FASB ASC 842 should be the contractual term used to
measure expected credit losses under FASB ASC 326.
        <emphasis role="italic">Interaction of FASB ASC 842
and FASB ASC 326 (issue 6)</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . The amendments to FASB ASC
860-20 clarify that when an entity regains control of financial assets
sold, an allowance for credit losses should be recorded in accordance
with FASB ASC 326.
        <emphasis role="italic">Interaction of FASB ASC 326
and FASB ASC 860-20 (issue 7)</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>