<root id="aag-afi1_08" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>1.08</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">1.08</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">The following are principal types of risk
applicable to financial instruments. This list is not meant to be
exhaustive, and different terminology may be used to describe these
risks or classify the components of individual risks:</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      is the
risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial
loss to another party by failing to discharge an obligation, and it
is often associated with default. Credit risk includes counterparty
risk and settlement risk, which are defined as follows:
    <emphasis role="bold">Credit (or counterparty)
risk. </emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">Credit risk</emphasis>
    <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
      <para>
        See the FASB ASC Master Glossary for definitions of  for purposes of a hedged item
in a fair value hedge and a hedged transaction in a cash flow hedge. 
        <emphasis role="italic">credit risk</emphasis>
      </para>
    </footnote>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      is the risk that
the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will
fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk comprises
currency risk, interest rate risk, and other price risk.
    <emphasis role="bold">Market risk. </emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">Market risk</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    Liquidity risk includes the risk of not being able to buy or sell
a financial instrument at an appropriate price in a timely manner
due to a lack of marketability for that financial instrument.
    <emphasis role="bold">Liquidity risk. </emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
     Operational risk relates to the specific processing required for
financial instruments. Operational risk may increase as the complexity
of a financial instrument increases, and poor management of operational
risk may increase other types of risk. Operational risk includes the
risk
    <emphasis role="bold">Operational risk.</emphasis>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . Connotes the exposure to the aggregate credit risk posed by all
transactions with one counterparty.
        <emphasis role="italic">Counterparty risk</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . The related exposure that a counterparty may fail to perform under
a contract after the end user has delivered funds or assets according
to its obligations. Settlement risk relates almost solely to over-the-counter
(OTC) contracts (that is, nonexchange-traded instruments). One method
for minimizing settlement risk is to enter into a master netting agreement
that allows the parties to offset all their related payable and receivable
positions at settlement.
        <emphasis role="italic">Settlement risk</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>that confirmation and reconciliation controls are
inadequate, resulting in incomplete or inaccurate recording of financial
instruments.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>that inappropriate documentation of transactions and
insufficient monitoring of these transactions exist.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>that transactions are incorrectly recorded, processed,
or risk managed and, therefore, do not reflect the economics of the
overall trade.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>that undue reliance is placed by staff on the accuracy
of valuation techniques without adequate review, and transactions
are, therefore, incorrectly valued, or their risk is improperly measured.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>that the use of financial instruments is not adequately
incorporated into the entity’s risk management policies and procedures.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal
processes and systems or from external events, including the risk
of fraud from both internal and external sources.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>that inadequate or nontimely maintenance of valuation
techniques used to measure financial instruments exist.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>that losses may result from a legal or regulatory
action that invalidates or otherwise precludes performance by the
end user or its counterparty under the terms of the contract or related
netting arrangements (that is, legal risk, which is a component of
operational risk). For example, legal risk could arise from insufficient
or incorrect documentation for the contract, an inability to enforce
a netting arrangement in bankruptcy, adverse changes in tax laws,
or statutes that prohibit entities from investing in certain types
of financial instruments.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>