<root id="aag-afi_appF_applicability_and_effective_date2" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Applicability and Effective Date</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Applicability and Effective Date</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2016-13 affects entities holding
financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted
for at fair value through net income. It also affects loans, debt
securities, trade receivables, net investments in leases, off-balance
sheet credit exposures, reinsurance receivables, and any other financial
assets not excluded from the scope that have the contractual right
to receive cash.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">Because there is diversity in practice in
applying the incurred loss methodology, ASU No. 2016-13 will affect
entities to varying degrees depending on the credit quality of the
assets held by the entities, their duration, and how the entity applies
current GAAP. </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    ASU No. 2016-13 is effective (as amended
by FASB ASU No. 2019-10, ) as follows:
    <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815),
and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">All entities may adopt the amendments in
this ASU earlier as of the fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.</para>
  <table frame="all" id="aag-afi_appF_table3" role="ps_table_center">
    <title/>
    <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
      <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1.92in"/>
      <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="2.17in"/>
      <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.92in"/>
      <thead>
        <row>
          <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
            <para/>
          </entry>
          <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">
                <emphasis role="bold">Fiscal Years Beginning
After</emphasis>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">
                <emphasis role="bold">Interim Periods
Within Fiscal Years Beginning After</emphasis>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <row>
          <entry>
            <para>
              Public business entities that meet the definition of SEC filers,
excluding entities eligible to be smaller reporting companies as defined
by the SEC 
              <emphasis role="superscript">1</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry>
            <para>December 15, 2019</para>
          </entry>
          <entry>
            <para>December 15, 2019</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry>
            <para>All other entities</para>
          </entry>
          <entry>
            <para>December 15, 2022</para>
          </entry>
          <entry>
            <para>December 15, 2022</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry nameend="c3" namest="c1">
            <para>
               The one-time
determination of whether an entity is eligible to be a smaller reporting
company should be based on an entity’s most recent determination as
of November 15, 2019, in accordance with SEC regulations.
              <tab/>
              <emphasis role="superscript">1</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
      </tbody>
    </tgroup>
  </table>
</root>