<root id="aag-afi6_additional_considerations_about_hedging" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Additional Considerations About Hedging Activities</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Additional Considerations About Hedging
Activities</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi6_11" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.11</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.11</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      To account for a derivative as a hedge,
FASB  (ASC) 815 requires management, at the inception of the hedge, to
designate the derivative as a hedge and contemporaneously formally
document the hedging relationship, the entity’s risk management
objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge, and the method of
assessing the effectiveness of the hedge. In addition, to qualify
for hedge accounting, FASB ASC 815 requires that management have an
expectation, both at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing
basis, that the hedging relationship will be highly effective in achieving
the hedging strategy.
      <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
        <para>FASB ASC 815-20-25 requires formal documentation of prescribed
aspects of hedging relationships at the inception of the hedge.</para>
      </footnote>
      <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn10" label="fn 10" role="number">
        <para>
          FASB ASC 815, , requires management to periodically reassess the effectiveness
of hedging relationships whenever financial statements or earnings
are reported and at least every three months. It also requires that
all assessments of effectiveness be consistent with the risk management
strategy documented for the particular hedging relationship.
          <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_12" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.12</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.12</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor may gather audit evidence
to determine whether management complied with the hedge accounting
requirements of FASB ASC 815, including designation and documentation
requirements. In addition, the auditor may gather audit evidence to
support management’s expectation at the inception of the hedge that
the hedging relationship will be highly effective and management’s
periodic assessment of the ongoing effectiveness of the hedging relationship
as required by FASB ASC 815. </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_13" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.13</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.13</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">When the entity designates a derivative
as a fair value hedge, FASB ASC 815-25 requires that the entity adjust
the carrying amount of the hedged item for the change in the hedged
item’s fair value that is attributable to the hedged risk. The auditor
may gather audit evidence supporting the recorded change in the hedged
item’s fair value that is attributable to the hedged risk. Additionally,
the auditor may gather audit evidence to determine whether management
has properly applied FASB ASC 815-25 to the hedged item.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_14" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.14</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.14</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">For a cash flow hedge of a forecasted
transaction, FASB ASC 815-20 requires management to determine that
the forecasted transaction is probable of occurring. Those principles
require that the likelihood the transaction will take place not be
based solely on management’s intent. Instead, the transaction’s probability
should be supported by observable facts and the attendant circumstances,
such as the</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">Paragraph .26 of AU-C section 330B requires
the auditor to perform audit procedures to evaluate whether the overall
presentation of the financial statements, including the related disclosures,
is in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
This includes evaluating management’s determination of whether a forecasted
transaction is probable.</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>frequency of similar past transactions.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>financial and operational ability of the entity to
carry out the transaction.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>extent of loss that could result if the transaction
does not occur.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>likelihood that transactions with substantially different
characteristics might be used to achieve the same business purpose.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>