<root id="aag-afi_preface_alternatives_within_u_s__generally" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Alternatives Within U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Alternatives Within U.S. Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">The Private Company Council (PCC), established
by the Financial Accounting Foundation’s Board of Trustees in 2012,
and FASB, working jointly, will mutually agree on a set of criteria
to decide whether and when alternatives within U.S. GAAP are warranted
for private companies. Based on those criteria, the PCC reviews and
proposes alternatives within U.S. GAAP to address the needs of users
of private company financial statements. These U.S. GAAP alternatives
may be applied to those entities that are not public business entities,
not-for-profits, or employee benefit plans. </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    The FASB ASC Master Glossary defines a  as follows:
    <emphasis>public business entity</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">A public business entity is a business entity
meeting any one of the criteria below. Neither a not-for-profit entity
nor an employee benefit plan is a business entity.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    a.It is required by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) to file or furnish financial statements,
or does file or furnish financial statements (including voluntary
filers), with the SEC (including other entities whose financial statements
or financial information are required to be or are included in a filing).
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    b.It is required by the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the Act), as amended, or rules or regulations
promulgated under the Act, to file or furnish financial statements
with a regulatory agency other than the SEC.
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    c.It is required to file or furnish
financial statements with a foreign or domestic regulatory agency
in preparation for the sale of or for purposes of issuing securities
that are not subject to contractual restrictions on transfer.
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    d.It has issued, or is a conduit
bond obligor for, securities that are traded, listed, or quoted on
an exchange or an over-the-counter market.
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    e.It has one or more securities
that are not subject to contractual restrictions on transfer, and
it is required by law, contract, or regulation to prepare U.S. GAAP
financial statements (including footnotes) and make them publicly
available on a periodic basis (for example, interim or annual periods).
An entity must meet both of these conditions to meet this criterion.
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">An entity may meet the definition of a public
business entity solely because its financial statements or financial
information is included in another entity’s filing with the SEC. In
that case, the entity is only a public business entity for purposes
of financial statements that are filed or furnished with the SEC.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    Considerations related to alternatives for
private companies may be discussed within this guide’s chapter text.
When such discussion is provided, the related paragraphs are designated
with the following title: .
    <emphasis role="italic">Considerations for
Private Companies That Elect to use Standards as Issued by the Private
Company Council</emphasis>
  </para>
</root>