<root id="aag-afi1_controls_relating_to_financial" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Controls Relating to Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Controls Relating to Financial Instruments</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi1_10" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.10</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.10</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The extent of an entity’s use of financial
instruments and the degree of complexity of the instruments are important
determinants of the necessary level of sophistication of the entity’s
internal control. For example, smaller entities may use less structured
products and simple processes and procedures to achieve their objectives.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_11" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.11</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.11</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Often, it is the role of those charged
with governance to set the tone regarding, and approve and oversee
the extent of, the use of financial instruments, but it is management’s
role to manage and monitor the entity’s exposures to those risks.
Management and, when appropriate, those charged with governance are
also responsible for designing and implementing a system of internal
control to enable the preparation and fair presentation of financial
statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
An entity’s internal control over financial instruments is more likely
to be effective when management and those charged with governance
have</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_2">
      , "Internal Control," of this guide provides examples of controls
that may exist in an entity that deals in a high volume of financial
instrument transactions.
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi3">Chapter 3</olink>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>established an appropriate control environment (for
example, active participation by those charged with governance in
controlling the use of financial instruments); a logical organizational
structure with clear assignment of authority and responsibility; and
appropriate human resource policies and procedures. In particular,
clear rules are needed on the extent to which those responsible for
financial instrument activities are permitted to act. Such rules take
into account any legal or regulatory restrictions on using financial
instruments. For example, certain public sector entities may not have
the power to conduct business using derivatives.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>established a risk management process relative to
the size of the entity and the complexity of its financial instruments.
(For example, in some entities, a formal risk management function
may exist.)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>established information systems that provide those
charged with governance with an understanding of the nature of the
financial instrument activities and the associated risks, including
adequate documentation of transactions.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>designed, implemented, and documented a system of
internal control to</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
      <listitem>
        <para>provide reasonable assurance that the entity’s use
of financial instruments is within its risk management policies.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>properly present financial instruments in the financial
statements.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>ensure that the entity is in compliance with applicable
laws and regulations.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>monitor risk.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>established appropriate accounting policies, including
valuation policies, in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_12" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.12</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.12</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Key elements of risk management processes
and internal control relating to an entity’s financial instruments
include</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>setting an approach to define the amount of risk exposure
that the entity is willing to accept when engaging in financial instrument
transactions (this may be referred to as its "risk appetite"), including
policies for investing in financial instruments and the control framework
in which the financial instrument activities are conducted.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>establishing processes for the documentation and authorization
of new types of financial instrument transactions that consider the
accounting, regulatory, legal, financial, and operational risks that
are associated with such instruments.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>processing financial instrument transactions, including
confirmation and reconciliation of cash and asset holdings to external
statements and the payments process.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>segregation of duties between those investing or trading
in the financial instruments and those responsible for processing,
valuing, and confirming such instruments. For example, a model development
function that is involved in assisting in pricing deals is less objective
than one that is functionally and organizationally separate from the
sales function.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>valuation processes and controls, including controls
over data obtained from third-party pricing sources.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>monitoring of controls.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_13" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.13</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.13</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The nature of risks often differs between
entities with a high volume and variety of financial instruments and
those with only a few financial instrument transactions. This results
in different approaches to internal control:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Often, an institution with a high volume of financial
instruments will have a dealing room-type environment in which there
are specialist traders and segregation of duties between those traders
and the administrative and support services (which refers to the operations
function that data checks trades that have been conducted, ensuring
that they are not erroneous and transacting the required transfers).
In such environments, the traders will often initiate contracts verbally
over the phone or via an electronic trading platform. Capturing relevant
transactions and accurately recording financial instruments in such
an environment is significantly more challenging than for an entity
with only a few financial instruments whose existence and completeness
often can be confirmed with a bank confirmation to a few banks.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>On the other hand, entities with only a small number
of financial instruments often do not have segregation of duties,
and access to the market is limited. In such cases, although it may
be easier to identify financial instrument transactions, a risk exists
that management may rely on a limited number of personnel, which may
increase the risk that unauthorized transactions may be initiated,
or transactions may not be recorded.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>