<root id="aag-afi1_11" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>1.11</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">1.11</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">Often, it is the role of those charged
with governance to set the tone regarding, and approve and oversee
the extent of, the use of financial instruments, but it is management’s
role to manage and monitor the entity’s exposures to those risks.
Management and, when appropriate, those charged with governance are
also responsible for designing and implementing a system of internal
control to enable the preparation and fair presentation of financial
statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
An entity’s internal control over financial instruments is more likely
to be effective when management and those charged with governance
have</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">
    , "Internal Control," of this guide provides examples of controls
that may exist in an entity that deals in a high volume of financial
instrument transactions.
    <olink targetptr="aag-afi3">Chapter 3</olink>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>established an appropriate control environment (for
example, active participation by those charged with governance in
controlling the use of financial instruments); a logical organizational
structure with clear assignment of authority and responsibility; and
appropriate human resource policies and procedures. In particular,
clear rules are needed on the extent to which those responsible for
financial instrument activities are permitted to act. Such rules take
into account any legal or regulatory restrictions on using financial
instruments. For example, certain public sector entities may not have
the power to conduct business using derivatives.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>established a risk management process relative to
the size of the entity and the complexity of its financial instruments.
(For example, in some entities, a formal risk management function
may exist.)</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>established information systems that provide those
charged with governance with an understanding of the nature of the
financial instrument activities and the associated risks, including
adequate documentation of transactions.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>designed, implemented, and documented a system of
internal control to</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>provide reasonable assurance that the entity’s use
of financial instruments is within its risk management policies.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>properly present financial instruments in the financial
statements.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>ensure that the entity is in compliance with applicable
laws and regulations.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>monitor risk.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>established appropriate accounting policies, including
valuation policies, in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>