<root id="aag-afi1_further_considerations_relating_to" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Further Considerations Relating to Third-Party Pricing
Sources</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Further Considerations Relating to
Third-Party Pricing Sources</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi1_52" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.52</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.52</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Understanding how the pricing sources
calculated a price enables management to determine whether such information
is suitable for use in its valuation, including as an input to a valuation
technique and in what level of inputs the security should be categorized
for disclosure purposes. For example, third-party pricing sources
may value financial instruments using proprietary models, and it is
important that management understands the methodology, assumptions,
and data used.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_53" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.53</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.53</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">If fair value measurements obtained from
third-party pricing sources are not based on the current prices of
an active market, it will be necessary for management to evaluate
whether the fair value measurements were derived in a manner that
is consistent with the applicable financial reporting framework. Management’s
understanding of the fair value measurement may include</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">Understanding the bases on which third-party
pricing sources have determined their quotes in the context of the
particular financial instruments held by the entity assists management
in evaluating the relevance and reliability of this evidence to support
its valuations.</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>how the fair value measurement was determined (for
example, whether the fair value measurement was determined by a valuation
technique in order to assess whether it is consistent with the fair
value measurement objective).</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>whether the quotes are indicative prices, indicative
spread, or binding offers.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>how frequently the fair value measurement is estimated
by the third-party pricing sources in order to assess whether it reflects
market conditions at the measurement date.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_54" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.54</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.54</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Disparities may exist between price indicators
from different sources. Understanding how the price indicators were
derived and investigating these disparities assists management in
corroborating the evidence used in developing its valuation of financial
instruments in order to evaluate whether the valuation is reasonable.
Simply taking the average of the quotes provided without doing further
research may not be appropriate because one price in the range may
be the most representative of fair value, and this may not be the
average. To evaluate whether its valuations of financial instruments
are reasonable, management may</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>consider whether actual transactions represent forced
transactions rather than transactions between willing buyers and sellers.
This may invalidate the price as a comparison.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>analyze the expected future cash flows of the instrument.
This could be performed as an indicator of the most relevant pricing
data.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>depending on the nature of what is unobservable, extrapolate
from observed prices to unobserved ones (for example, there may be
observed prices for maturities up to 10 years but not longer, but
the 10-year price curve may be capable of being extrapolated beyond
10 years as an indicator). Care is needed to ensure that extrapolation
is not carried so far beyond the observable curve that its link to
observable prices becomes too tenuous to be reliable.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>compare prices within a portfolio of financial instruments
with each other to make sure they are consistent among similar financial
instruments.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>use more than one model to corroborate the results
from each one, considering the data and assumptions used in each.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>evaluate movements in the prices for related hedging
instruments and collateral.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>