<root id="aag-afi1_consensus_pricing_services" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Consensus Pricing Services</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Consensus Pricing Services</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi1_49" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.49</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.49</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Some entities may use pricing data from
consensus pricing services, which differ from other pricing services.
Consensus pricing services obtain pricing information about an instrument
from several participating entities (subscribers). Each subscriber
submits prices to the pricing service. The pricing service treats
this information confidentially and returns to each subscriber the
consensus price, which is usually an arithmetical average of the data
after a data-cleansing routine has been employed to eliminate outliers.
For some markets, such as exotic derivatives, consensus prices might
constitute the best available data. However, many factors are considered
when assessing the representational faithfulness of the consensus
prices, including, for example</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>whether the prices submitted by the subscribers reflect
actual transactions or just indicative prices based on their own valuation
techniques.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the number of sources from which prices have been
obtained.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the quality of the sources used by the consensus pricing
service.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>whether participants include leading market participants.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_50" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.50</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.50</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Typically, consensus prices are only available
to subscribers who have submitted their own prices to the service.
Accordingly, not all entities will have direct access to consensus
prices. Because a subscriber generally cannot know how the prices
submitted were estimated, other sources of evidence in addition to
information from consensus pricing services may be needed for management
to support its valuation. In particular, this may be the case if the
sources are providing indicative prices based on their own valuation
techniques, and management is unable to obtain an understanding of
how these sources calculated their prices.</para>
  </section>
</root>