<root id="aag-afi9_description_of_the_transaction" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Description of the Transaction</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Transaction</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi9_03" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>9.03</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">9.03</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      On September 24, 20X1, Martin, Inc. (Martin)
purchased as an investment 100 of the $1,000, 5% convertible bonds
issued by Larson Enterprises (Larson). The bonds have a conversion
option under which Martin can require Larson to settle the bonds at
any time prior to their maturity by converting each bond into 26.185
shares of Larson’s publicly traded equity securities. For each bond,
Martin paid $1,242.50 plus accrued interest of $19.98, for a total
price per bond of $1,262.48. Therefore, Martin paid $126,248 for the
100 bonds, consisting of $124,250 for the convertible bonds and $1,998
for accrued interest. Martin classifies the bonds as available for
sale.
      <footnote id="aag-afi9_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
        <para>As noted in FASB ASC 320-10-25-5, the existence of the conversion
option on Larson Enterprises’ (Larson’s) stock would generally preclude
Martin, Inc. (Martin) from classifying the bonds as held to maturity.
A conversion option feature on a held-to-maturity security will call
into question an investor’s stated intent to hold other debt securities
to maturity in the future.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_04" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>9.04</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">9.04</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The convertible bonds are hybrid financial
instruments that are a combination of straight interest-bearing bonds
and a conversion option. Because the option affects the value of the
bonds in a manner similar to a derivative, Martin must analyze the
hybrid instrument against the three criteria set out in FASB ASC 815-15-25-1. If the bond meets all the criteria, the option is an embedded
derivative that must be accounted for separately from the straight
bonds. The straight bonds are considered to be the host contracts
for the embedded derivative. , "Martin, Inc., Comparison of the Conversion
Option in the Larson Enterprises’ Bonds With the Criteria in FASB  815-15-25-1
for Separately Accounting for an Embedded Derivative," compares the
option contained in the Larson convertible bonds with the three criteria.
      <footnote id="aag-afi9_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
        <para>
          Because Larson’s equity securities are publicly traded, the
option that requires physical delivery of those shares would generally
be considered net settleable because the shares are readily convertible
into cash. As discussed in FASB ASC 815-10-15-18, if the shares were
not readily convertible into cash (for example, because they are privately
held), the option would not be considered net settleable and, therefore,
would not be a derivative instrument subject to the requirements of
FASB ASC 815, , if freestanding.
          <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi9_exhibit_9-1">Exhibit 9-1</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_05" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>9.05</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">9.05</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Paragraphs 4–5 of FASB ASC 815-15-25 permit
fair value remeasurement of any hybrid financial instrument that contains
an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation. An
entity that initially recognizes a hybrid financial instrument that
under FASB ASC 815-15-25-1 would be required to be separated into
a host contract and derivative instrument may irrevocably elect to
initially and subsequently measure that hybrid financial instrument
in its entirety at fair value (with changes in fair value recognized
in earnings and, if paragraph 825-10-45-5 is applicable, other comprehensive
income). A financial instrument should be evaluated to determine that
it has an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation before the instrument
can become a candidate for the fair value election. The fair value
election should be supported by concurrent documentation or a preexisting
documented policy for automatic election. That recognized hybrid financial
instrument could be an asset or a liability, and it could be acquired
or issued by the entity. That election is also available when a previously
recognized financial instrument is subject to a remeasurement event
(new basis event) and the separate recognition of an embedded derivative.
For purposes of FASB ASC 815-15-25-5, a  is an event identified in accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America, other
than the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment, or measurement
of an impairment loss through earnings under FASB ASC 321, , on equity
investments, that requires a financial instrument to be remeasured
to its fair value at the time of the event but does not require that
instrument to be reported at fair value on a continuous basis with
the change in fair value recognized in earnings. Examples of remeasurement
events are  and , as defined in FASB ASC 470-50. Per FASB ASC 815-15-25-6, the fair
value election should not be applied to any hybrid instruments listed
in FASB ASC 825-10-50-8.
      <emphasis role="italic">remeasurement
(new basis event)</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Equity Securities</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">business combinations</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">significant modifications of debt</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      <emphasis role="shade">
        Paragraphs 4–5
of FASB ASC 815-15-25 permit fair value remeasurement of any hybrid
financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise
would require bifurcation. An entity that initially recognizes a hybrid
financial instrument that under FASB ASC 815-15-25-1 would be required
to be separated into a host contract and derivative instrument may
irrevocably elect to initially and subsequently measure that hybrid
financial instrument in its entirety at fair value (with changes in
fair value recognized in earnings and, if paragraph 825-10-45-5 is
applicable, other comprehensive income). A financial instrument should
be evaluated to determine that it has an embedded derivative requiring
bifurcation before the instrument can become a candidate for the fair
value election. The fair value election should be supported by concurrent
documentation or a preexisting documented policy for automatic election.
That recognized hybrid financial instrument could be an asset or a
liability, and it could be acquired or issued by the entity. That
election is also available when a previously recognized financial
instrument is subject to a remeasurement event (new basis event) and
the separate recognition of an embedded derivative. For purposes of
FASB ASC 815-15-25-5, a  is an event identified in accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America, other than the
recording of a credit loss under FASB ASC 326, , or measurement
of an impairment loss through earnings under FASB ASC 321 on equity
investments, that requires a financial instrument to be remeasured
to its fair value at the time of the event but does not require that
instrument to be reported at fair value on a continuous basis with
the change in fair value recognized in earnings. Examples of remeasurement
events are  and , as defined in FASB ASC 470-50. Per FASB ASC 815-15-25-6, the fair
value election should not be applied to any hybrid instruments listed
in FASB ASC 825-10-50-8.
        <emphasis role="italic">remeasurement (new
basis event)</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments — Credit Losses</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">business combinations</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">significant modifications of debt</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_06" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>9.06</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">9.06</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">According to FASB ASC 815-15-25-5, the
fair value election for hybrid financial instruments in paragraphs
4–5 of FASB ASC 815-15-25 may be made on an instrument-by-instrument
basis.</para>
    <para id="aag-afi9_exhibit_9-1" role="ps_indent_0">
      <emphasis role="bold">
        Exhibit 9-1 — Martin, Inc., Comparison of the Conversion Option in
the Larson Enterprises’ Bonds With the Criteria in FASB  815-15-25-1
for Separately Accounting for an Embedded Derivative
        <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">Because all three criteria are met, Martin
should account for the option (that is, embedded derivative) separately
from the straight bond (that is, host contract).</para>
    <table frame="all" id="aag-afi9_table1" role="ps_table_center">
      <title/>
      <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
        <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.92in"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="3.04in"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
              <para>
                <emphasis role="italic">Criterion</emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
              <para>
                <emphasis role="italic">Analysis</emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <para>
                 The economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative
instrument are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics
and risks of the host contract.
                <emphasis role="italic">Not clearly and closely related.</emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <para>
                Following the guidance in paragraphs 30–34 of FASB  (ASC) 815-10-15,
because the option is based on stock prices, it is not clearly and
closely related to the straight bond.
                <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
              </para>
              <para>
                <emphasis role="italic">Criterion is met.</emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <para>
                 The hybrid instrument that embodies both the embedded derivative
instrument and host contract is not remeasured at fair value under
otherwise applicable accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America, with changes in fair value reported in earnings
as they occur.
                <emphasis role="italic">Accounting for the hybrid instrument.</emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <para>
                Martin, Inc., classifies the bonds as available for sale under
FASB ASC 320-10-25-1. Accordingly, although the bonds will be remeasured
at fair value, the changes in their fair value will be reported in
other comprehensive income rather than earnings.
                <emphasis role="bold">*</emphasis>
              </para>
              <para>
                <emphasis role="italic">Criterion is met.</emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <para>
                 A separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded instrument
meets the definition of a , subject to the requirements of FASB ASC 815-10-15.
                <emphasis role="italic">The embedded instrument is a derivative.</emphasis>
                <emphasis role="italic">derivative</emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <para>
                A conversion option would be a derivative subject to the requirements
of FASB ASC 815, .
                <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
              </para>
              <para>
                <emphasis role="italic">Criterion is met.</emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" nameend="c3" namest="c1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <para>
                If Martin, Inc., instead
classified the bonds as trading under FASB ASC 320, ,
the bonds would be remeasured at fair value, with changes in fair
value reported in earnings as they occur. Accordingly, this criterion
would not be met, and FASB ASC 815, , would prohibit accounting for the option separately
from the bond.
                <emphasis role="bold">*</emphasis>
                <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Debt and Equity Securities</emphasis>
                <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives
and Hedging</emphasis>
                <tab/>
              </para>
            </entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
  </section>
</root>