<root id="aag-afi6_scope_limitations" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Scope Limitations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Scope Limitations</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi6_19" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.19</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.19</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s objective is to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence to provide a reasonable basis for forming
an opinion. There are often significant challenges to management obtaining
sufficient information to support its assertions relevant to financial
instruments, and auditors will face similar challenges in obtaining
audit evidence and evaluating its sufficiency. The amounts and types
of audit evidence necessary to support an opinion are matters for
the auditor to determine in the exercise of his or her professional
judgment after careful study of the particular circumstances. In evaluating
audit evidence, the auditor may consider whether the specific audit
objectives have been met. The consideration might include such factors
as</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>the significance of the financial instruments for
which neither the underlying detail nor audited financial statements
were available as of the balance sheet date.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the adequacy of management’s process and related internal
control.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>timeliness of the estimated fair value of the underlying
financial instruments.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_20" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.20</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.20</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s justification for the expression
of his or her opinion rests on the conformity of the audit with generally
accepted auditing standards (GAAS). When a significant amount of financial
instruments are stated at estimated fair value, the auditor may consider
both the uncertainties inherent in the financial instrument valuations
and the extent of audit evidence supporting those valuations. The
assessment of reasonableness of valuations considers their effects
on the financial statements as a whole, not solely the investment
caption in the financial statements. If the auditor is unable to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support the financial statement
assertions, it will be necessary to modify an opinion on the financial
statements due to a scope limitation. </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_21" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.21</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.21</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Scope limitations related to sufficiency
of evidence are different from situations in which the auditor concludes
that the financial statements are materially misstated due to departures
from the applicable financial reporting framework related to inadequate
disclosure of uncertainties inherent in the financial instrument valuations,
failure to apply a valuation method required by the applicable financial
reporting framework, or valuations that are not supported or reasonable.
If the potential effect of the applicable financial reporting framework
departure is material to the investor entity’s financial statements
as a whole, the auditor is required to issue a qualified opinion or
an adverse opinion, as described in paragraph .09 of AU-C section
705B.</para>
  </section>
</root>