<root id="aag-afi_preface_auditor_reporting_standards" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Auditor Reporting Standards</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Auditor Reporting Standards</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    In May 2020, the Auditing Standards Board
(ASB) issued Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 141, , to allow for a one-year delay of the effective dates of the following
SASs that were issued between May 2019 and April 2020:
    <emphasis role="italic">Amendment to the Effective Dates of SAS Nos. 134–140</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">SAS No. 134 was issued to enhance the relevance
and usefulness of the auditor’s report. SAS No. 134 was developed
by the ASB in consideration of the following issues:</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    SAS No. 135 is intended to more closely align
ASB guidance with the PCAOB standards primarily by amending , , , , and , ,
in AICPA . By eliminating unnecessary differences between the ASB guidance
and PCAOB standards, auditors who perform audits under both sets of
auditing standards will experience more consistency between the guidance
and standards, thereby enhancing audit quality.
    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_260">AU-C sections 260</olink>
    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_550">550</olink>
    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_240">240</olink>
    <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication With Those Charged With
Governance</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">Related Parties</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">Professional Standards</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    SAS No. 137 provides transparency related
to the auditor’s responsibility for other information included in
an annual report when the auditor has obtained all the other information
at the date of the auditor’s report on the financial statements. SAS
No. 137 supersedes SAS No. 118, , as
amended and codified in , .
    <emphasis role="italic">Other Information
in Documents Containing Audited Financial Statements</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Responsibilities
Relating to Other Information Included in Annual Reports</emphasis>
    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_720">AU-C
section 720</olink>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    SAS No. 138 aligns the materiality concepts
discussed in AICPA  with the description
of materiality used by the U.S. judicial system, the auditing standards
of the PCAOB, the SEC, and FASB. The ASB’s current description of
the concept of materiality is consistent with the definition used
by the International Accounting Standards Board and the International
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. The changes are not expected
to significantly affect practice.
    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">
      <emphasis role="italic">Professional Standards</emphasis>
    </olink>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    SAS No. 139 amends the following AU-C sections
to reflect changes to the auditor’s report included in SAS No. 134: , ; , ; and , .
    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_800">section 800</olink>
    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_805">section 805</olink>
    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_810">section 810</olink>
    <emphasis role="italic">Special Considerations — Audits of Financial Statements
Prepared in Accordance With Special Purpose Frameworks</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">Special Considerations — Audits of Single Financial
Statements and Specific Elements, Accounts, or Items of a Financial
Statement</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">Engagements to Report
on Summary Financial Statements</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    SAS No. 140 contains amendments to conform
the following AU-C sections to SAS No. 134: , ; , ; and , . SAS No. 140 also contains amendments to conform
the following AU-C sections to SAS No. 137: , , and , .
    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_930">section 930</olink>
    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_935">section 935</olink>
    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_940">section
940</olink>
    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_725">AU-C section 725</olink>
    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_730">AU-C section 730</olink>
    <emphasis role="italic">Interim
Financial Information</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">Compliance
Audits</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">An Audit of Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting That Is Integrated With an Audit of Financial
Statements</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">Supplementary Information in Relation to the Financial Statements
as a Whole</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">Required Supplementary
Information</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">SAS No. 141 is effective upon issuance. In
general, SAS No. 141 changes the effective dates of SAS Nos. 134–140
from December 15, 2020 to December 15, 2021 to provide more time for
firms to implement these SASs in light of the effect of the coronavirus
pandemic. Early implementation of SAS Nos. 134–140 is also now permitted,
and the ASB recommends that SAS Nos. 134–140 be implemented at the
same time.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    This edition of the guide has not been updated
to reflect changes as a result of these SASs. Each AU-C section in
this guide designated with a “B” suffix (for example, “AU-C section
200B”) denotes content that does not reflect the codification of SAS
Nos. 134–140 or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140
and subsequently-issued SASs. However, future guidance is presented
as a guidance update box that includes only a very concise summary
of what is coming and the effective dates of the guidance. The guidance
update box is presented at the beginning of the chapter or immediately
following the section header for each impacted section. In addition,
readers are encouraged to consult the full text of the SASs at .
    <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html</ulink>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        SAS No. 134, , as amended
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditor Reporting
and Amendments, Including Amendments Addressing Disclosures in the
Audit of Financial Statements</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        SAS No. 135, 
        <emphasis role="italic">Omnibus Statement
on Auditing Standards — 2019</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        ,  (AU-C sec.
720)
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_720">SAS No. 137</olink>
        <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating
to Other Information Included in Annual Reports</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        SAS No. 138, 
        <emphasis role="italic">Amendments to
the Description of the Concept of Materiality</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        SAS No. 139, 
        <emphasis role="italic">Amendments to
AU-C Sections 800, 805, and 810 to Incorporate Auditor Reporting Changes
From SAS No. 134</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        SAS No. 140, 
        <emphasis role="italic">Amendments to
AU-C Sections 725, 730, 930, 935, and 940 to Incorporate Auditor Reporting
Changes From SAS Nos. 134 and 137</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Although users value the "pass/fail" nature of the
auditor’s opinion, they would like the auditor’s report to provide
greater transparency into the audit.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Users would like the auditor’s report to include more
information about areas with higher assessed risks of material misstatement,
areas that involve significant judgment by management and the auditor,
and areas that relate to significant events or transactions.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>To address the long-standing "expectations gap," users
and other stakeholders would like the auditor’s report to expand the
descriptions of the auditor’s responsibilities in financial statement
auditing and management’s responsibilities in financial statement
preparation.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>