<root id="aag-afi1_32" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>1.32</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">1.32</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">
    When markets are inactive, quoted prices
may be stale (that is, out of date); may not represent prices at which
market participants may trade; or may represent forced transactions
(such as [] when a seller is required
to sell an asset to meet regulatory or legal requirements or needs
to dispose of an asset immediately to create liquidity or [] the existence of a single potential buyer
as a result of the legal or time restrictions imposed). Accordingly,
valuations may be developed based on level 2 and level 3 inputs. Under
such circumstances, entities may have
    <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>a valuation policy that includes a process for determining
whether level 1 inputs are available.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>an understanding of how particular prices or inputs
from external sources used as inputs to valuation techniques were
calculated in order to assess their reliability. For example, in an
active market, a broker quote on a financial instrument that has not
traded is likely to reflect actual transactions on a similar financial
instrument, but as the market becomes less active, the broker quote
may rely more on proprietary valuation techniques to determine prices.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>an understanding of how deteriorating business conditions
affect the counterparty, as well as whether deteriorating business
conditions in entities similar to the counterparty may indicate that
the counterparty may not fulfill its obligations (that is, nonperformance
risk).</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>policies for adjusting for measurement uncertainties.
Such adjustments can include model adjustments, lack of liquidity
adjustments, credit risk adjustments, and other risk adjustments.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the capability to calculate the range of realistic
outcomes, given the uncertainties involved (for example by performing
a sensitivity analysis).</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>policies for identifying when a fair value measurement
input moves to a different level of the fair value hierarchy.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>