<root id="aag-afi4_fraud_risk_factors" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Fraud Risk Factors</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">
      Fraud Risk Factors
      <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
        <para>
          AU-C section 240B, , addresses fraud risk
factors.
          <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of
Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi4_06" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.06</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.06</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Incentives for fraudulent financial reporting
by employees may exist when compensation arrangements are dependent
on returns made from the use of financial instruments. Understanding
how an entity’s compensation policies interact with its risk appetite
and the incentives this may create for its management and traders
may be important in assessing the risk of fraud.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_07" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.07</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.07</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Difficult financial market conditions
may give rise to increased incentives for management or employees
to engage in fraudulent financial reporting to, for example</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">For example, at times of market instability,
unexpected losses may arise from extreme fluctuations in market prices,
from unanticipated declines in asset prices, through trading misjudgments,
or for other reasons. In addition, financing difficulties create pressures
on management concerned about the solvency of the business.</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>protect personal bonuses.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>hide employee or management fraud or error.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>avoid breaching regulatory, liquidity, or borrowing
limits.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>avoid reporting losses. </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_08" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.08</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.08</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Misappropriation of assets and fraudulent
financial reporting may often involve override of controls that otherwise
may appear to be operating effectively. This may include override
of controls over data, assumptions, and detailed process controls
that allow losses and theft to be hidden. For example, difficult market
conditions may increase pressure to conceal or offset trades as management
attempts to recover losses.</para>
  </section>
</root>