<root id="aag-afi_the_understanding_of_processes" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>The Understanding of Processes and Controls the Auditor
Needs to Plan the Audit</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Understanding of Processes and Controls
the Auditor Needs to Plan the Audit</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi8_11" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>8.11</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">8.11</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In obtaining an understanding of the entity
and its environment, including its internal control , the auditor
determines that</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Lane initiates trades and directs the broker-dealer
to execute them.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Lane maintains records of the trades it directs the
broker-dealer to execute.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the broker-dealer sends a confirmation of each trade
to Lane, which Lane usually receives within three business days.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Lane compares the information in the trade confirmation
with its record of the trade that it directed the broker-dealer to
execute and investigates significant differences.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Lane records the trade in the applicable general ledger
accounts.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>at the end of the year, Lane adjusts the general ledger
accounts for trades it has initiated for which confirmations have
not been received. Information for that adjustment is obtained from
Lane’s record of trades it directed the broker-dealer to execute and
the confirmations of those trades it received subsequent to year-end.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>monthly, the broker-dealer sends Lane a statement
that includes trades, servicing transactions, a description of the
financial instruments held, and the fair value of each of those financial
instruments. </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>monthly, Lane compares the information about trades
and the components of its financial instrument portfolio shown in
its accounting records with the broker-dealer’s monthly statement
and investigates significant differences.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>monthly, Lane records servicing transactions and changes
in unrealized holding gains and losses based on information in the
broker-dealer’s monthly statement. Lane compares the broker-dealer
information with its expectations based on published information and
investigates significant differences.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi8_12" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>8.12</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">8.12</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Paragraph .05 of AU-C section 402B, , does not apply to services that are limited
to processing an entity’s transactions that are specifically authorized
by the entity, such as the processing of checking account transactions
by a bank or the processing of financial instrument transactions by
a broker (that is, when the user entity retains responsibility for
authorizing the transactions and maintaining the related accountability). Because Lane retains responsibility for authorizing the
transactions and maintaining the related accountability, AU-C section
402B is not applicable in .
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity Using a Service
Organization</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
        <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently-issued
SASs.</para>
      </footnote>
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_a">scenario
A</olink>
    </para>
  </section>
</root>