<root id="aag-afi7_control_risk" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Control Risk</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Control Risk</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi7_20" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.20</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.20</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      BEV uses a broker-dealer to hold and service
its financial instruments, including the investment in the bond. However,
the fact that the entity uses a service organization to process some
of its financial instrument transactions does not, in and of itself,
require the auditor to obtain information about the broker-dealer’s
controls. AU-C section 315B, , addresses the auditor’s requirement to obtain
an understanding of the entity and its environment as part of performing
an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Paragraph .A54 of AU-C section 315B states that an entity’s
use of IT may affect any of the five components of internal control
relevant to the achievement of the entity’s financial reporting, operations,
or compliance objectives and its operating units or business functions.
This understanding should be sufficient for the auditor to
      <emphasis role="italic">Understanding
the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks of Material
Misstatement</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
        <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statements on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>identify the types of potential misstatement of the
assertions.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>consider factors that affect the risk that the potential
misstatements would be material to the financial statements.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>design substantive tests.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_21" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.21</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.21</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The types of potential material misstatements
relating to BEV’s investment in the bond relate primarily to the change
in classification from available for sale to held to maturity, which
is a risk that will not be addressed by the controls at the broker-dealer.
BEV maintains all the information necessary to perform substantive
procedures on investments. Accordingly, the auditor does not have
to obtain an understanding of controls in operation at the broker-dealer
in order to plan the audit.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_22" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.22</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.22</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Because the purchase and subsequent reclassification
of the bond was considered to be an isolated transaction, control
risk was assessed as high.</para>
  </section>
</root>