<root id="aag-afi5_audit_considerations_when_management" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Audit Considerations When Management Uses a Third-Party
Pricing Source</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Audit Considerations When Management
Uses a Third-Party Pricing Source</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi5_11" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.11</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.11</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Management may make use of a third-party
pricing source, such as a pricing service or broker, in valuing the
entity’s financial instruments. Understanding how management uses
the information and how the pricing service operates assists the auditor
in determining the nature and extent of audit procedures needed.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_12" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.12</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.12</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      AU-C section 500B, , explains that when information to be used
as audit evidence has been prepared using the work of management’s
specialist, the requirement with respect to management’s specialist
in paragraph .08 of AU-C section 500B applies. For example, an individual
or organization may possess expertise in the application of models
to estimate the fair value of securities for which no observable market
exists. If the individual or organization applies that expertise in
making an estimate that the entity uses in preparing its financial
statements, the individual or organization is a management’s specialist,
and paragraph .08 of AU-C section 500B applies. If, on the other hand,
that individual or organization merely provides price data regarding
private transactions not otherwise available to the entity that the
entity uses in its own estimation methods, such information, if used
as audit evidence, is subject to paragraph .07 of AU-C section 500B,
but it is not the use of management’s specialist by the entity.
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
        <para>
          See paragraph .A36 of AU-C section 500B, .
          <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_13" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.13</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.13</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The following matters may be relevant
when management uses a third-party pricing source:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>
          . Some third-party pricing sources make more information
available about their process. For example, a pricing service often
provides information about its methodology, assumptions, and data
in valuing financial instruments at the asset class level. By contrast,
brokers often provide no, or only limited, information about the inputs
and assumptions used in developing the quote.
          <emphasis role="italic">The type of third-party pricing
source</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          . The reliability
of prices from third-party pricing sources varies depending on the
observability of inputs (and, accordingly, the level of inputs in
the fair value hierarchy) and the complexity of the methodology for
valuing a specific security or asset class. For example, the reliability
of a price for an equity investment actively traded in a liquid market
is higher than that of a corporate bond traded in a liquid market
that has not traded on the measurement date, which, in turn, is more
reliable than that of an asset-backed security that is valued using
a discounted cash flow model.
          <emphasis role="italic">The nature of inputs used
and the complexity of the valuation technique</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          . For example, a third-party
pricing source may be experienced in a certain type of financial instrument
and be recognized as such but may not be similarly experienced in
other types of financial instruments. The auditor’s past experience
with the third-party pricing source may also be relevant in this regard.
          <emphasis role="italic">The reputation and experience
of the third-party pricing source</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          . For example, if a price obtained by management
comes from a counterparty, such as the broker who sold the financial
instrument to the entity, or an entity with a close relationship with
the entity being audited, the price may not be reliable.
          <emphasis role="italic">The objectivity of the third-party
pricing source</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          . The degree to which
management has controls in place to assess the reliability of information
from third-party pricing sources affects the reliability of the fair
value measurement. For example, management may have controls in place
to
          <emphasis role="italic">The entity’s controls over
the use of third-party pricing sources</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
      <listitem>
        <para>review and approve the use of the third-party pricing
source, including consideration of the reputation, experience, and
objectivity of the third-party pricing source.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>determine the completeness, relevance, and accuracy
of the prices and pricing-related data.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>
          . The controls and processes over valuations for
the asset classes are of interest to the auditor. For example, a third-party
pricing source may have strong controls around how prices are developed.
In addition, the third-party pricing source may include the use of
a formalized process for customers, both buy and sell side, to challenge
the prices received from the pricing service when supported by appropriate
evidence. This enables the third-party pricing source to constantly
correct prices to more fully reflect the information available to
market participants.
          <emphasis role="italic">The third-party pricing source’s
controls</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_14" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.14</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.14</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Possible approaches to gathering evidence
regarding information from third-party pricing sources may include
the following:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>For Level 1 inputs, comparing the information from
third-party pricing sources with observable market prices</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Reviewing disclosures provided by third-party pricing
sources about their controls and processes, valuation techniques,
inputs, and assumptions</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Testing the controls that management has in place
to assess the reliability of information from third-party pricing
sources</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Performing procedures at the third-party pricing source
to understand and test the controls and processes, valuation techniques,
inputs, and assumptions used for asset classes or specific financial
instruments of interest</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Evaluating whether the prices obtained from third-party
pricing sources are reasonable in relation to prices from other third-party
pricing sources, the entity’s estimate, or the auditor’s own estimate</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Evaluating the reasonableness of valuation techniques,
inputs, and assumptions</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Developing a point estimate or range for some financial
instruments priced by the third-party pricing source and evaluating
whether the results are within a reasonable range of each other</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          Obtaining a service auditor’s report that covers the
controls over validation of the prices
          <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
            <para>
              Some pricing services may provide reports for users of its data
to explain their controls over pricing data (that is, a report prepared
in accordance with , . Management may request,
and the auditor may consider obtaining, such a report to develop an
understanding of how the pricing data is prepared and to evaluate
whether the controls at the pricing service can be relied upon. See  of this guide
for additional guidance.
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="atc_320">AT-C
section 320</olink>
              <olink targetptr="aag-afi3_48">paragraphs 3.48–.53</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Reporting on an Examination
of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to User Entities’ Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting</emphasis>
            </para>
            <para>
              All AT-C sections can be found in AICPA .
              <tab/>
              <emphasis role="italic">
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_15" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.15</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.15</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Obtaining prices from multiple third-party
pricing sources may also provide useful information about measurement
uncertainty. A wide range of prices may indicate higher measurement
uncertainty and suggest that the financial instrument is sensitive
to small changes in data and assumptions. A narrow range may indicate
lower measurement uncertainty and suggest less sensitivity to changes
in data and assumptions. Although obtaining prices from multiple sources
may be useful, when considering financial instruments that have inputs
categorized at Levels 2 or 3 of the fair value hierarchy, in particular,
obtaining prices from multiple sources may not provide sufficient
appropriate audit evidence on its own because</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>what appear to be multiple sources of pricing information
may be utilizing the same underlying pricing source.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>understanding the inputs used by the third-party pricing
source in determining the price may be necessary in order to categorize
the financial instrument in the fair value hierarchy.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_16" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.16</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.16</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In some situations, the auditor may be
unable to gain an understanding of the process used to generate the
price, including any controls over the process of how reliably the
price is determined, or may not have access to the model, including
the assumptions and other inputs used. In such cases, the auditor
may decide to undertake to develop a point estimate or range to evaluate
management’s point estimate in responding to the assessed risk. </para>
  </section>
</root>