<root id="aag-afi_the_auditors_design_of2" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>The Auditor’s Design of Procedures</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Auditor’s Design of Procedures</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi8_28" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>8.28</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">8.28</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The auditor gathers audit evidence that
the broker-dealer has implemented the controls described in  and that those controls
are operating effectively. The auditor then identifies the objectives for the audit
of assertions about financial instruments and financial instrument
transactions and designs related procedures:
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_23">paragraph 8.23</olink>
      <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
        <para>The audit evidence can be obtained a variety of ways, such as
a type 2 service auditor’s report or special procedures performed
by the broker-dealer’s internal or external auditors.</para>
      </footnote>
      <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
        <para>
          In  and , the auditor
concludes that audit risk can be reduced to an acceptable level without
identifying controls placed in operation and gathering evidential
matter about their operating effectiveness. In this scenario, however,
the auditor concludes that identifying broker-dealer controls over
the existence and completeness assertions and gathering evidential
matter about their operating effectiveness is necessary to reduce
audit risk to an acceptable level. The only difference in the nature
of substantive procedures is that in this scenario, analytical procedures
are the only procedures performed to determine whether all the securities
that Lane owns and all its securities transactions have been recorded.
However, in  and , reconciliation
procedures are also performed.
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_a">scenarios A</olink>
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_b">B</olink>
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_a">scenarios A</olink>
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_b">B</olink>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <table frame="all" id="aag-afi8_table3" role="ps_table_center">
      <title/>
      <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
        <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.97in"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="2.99in"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
              <para>
                <emphasis role="italic">
                  <emphasis role="bold">Audit Objective </emphasis>
                </emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
              <para>
                <emphasis role="italic">
                  <emphasis role="bold">Procedure</emphasis>
                </emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <para>The recorded securities exist, and Lane has the rights and obligations
associated with ownership of the recorded financial instruments.</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                <listitem>
                  <para>Confirm with the broker-dealer the name of the investee,
the number of shares, whether the shares are pledged, and that Lane
is the owner.</para>
                </listitem>
              </itemizedlist>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <para>The recorded financial instrument transactions occurred.</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                <listitem>
                  <para>Inspect supporting documentation, such as trade confirmations
or entries in the broker-dealer’s monthly statements.</para>
                </listitem>
              </itemizedlist>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <para>All the financial instruments that Lane owns and all its financial
instrument transactions have been recorded.</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                <listitem>
                  <para>Perform analytical procedures on dividends and realized
and unrealized gains and losses.</para>
                </listitem>
              </itemizedlist>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <para>The financial instruments are recorded at their fair value,
determined by following the requirements of FASB ASC 320.</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                <listitem>
                  <para>Obtain the per-share price quoted by the exchange
at the balance sheet date and compare the quoted price with the price
that Lane used.</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                  <para>Test the extension of the number of shares at the
quoted price.</para>
                </listitem>
              </itemizedlist>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <para>Realized and unrealized holding gains and losses are properly
reported as earnings or other comprehensive income.</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                <listitem>
                  <para>Evaluate management’s considerations in ensuring that
the requirements of FASB ASC 320 were satisfied.</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                  <para>Review journal entries for propriety.</para>
                </listitem>
              </itemizedlist>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <para>The financial instruments are properly classified.</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                <listitem>
                  <para>Gather audit evidence about the classification of
the financial instruments as available for sale.</para>
                </listitem>
              </itemizedlist>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <para>Disclosures about financial instruments and financial instrument
transactions are adequate.</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
              <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                <listitem>
                  <para>Read the financial statements, and compare the disclosures
about financial instruments and financial instrument transactions
with the requirements of FASB ASC 320-10-50.</para>
                </listitem>
              </itemizedlist>
            </entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
  </section>
</root>