<root id="aag-afi1_financial_reporting_requirements" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Financial Reporting Requirements</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Financial Reporting Requirements</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi1_24" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.24</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.24</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In many financial reporting frameworks,
financial instruments, including embedded derivatives, are often measured
at fair value for the purpose of balance sheet presentation, calculating
gain or loss, or disclosure. In general, the objective of fair value
measurement is to arrive at the price at which an orderly transaction
to sell an asset or transfer a liability would take place between
market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions
(that is, at an exit price at the measurement date from the perspective
of the market participant that holds the asset or owes the liability).
In meeting this objective, all relevant available market information
is taken into account.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_25" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.25</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.25</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Fair value measurements of financial assets
and liabilities may arise both at the initial recording of transactions
and later when there are changes in value. Changes in fair value measurements
that occur over time may be treated in different ways under different
financial reporting frameworks. For example, such changes may be recorded
as gain or loss or in other comprehensive income. Also, depending
on the applicable financial reporting framework, the whole financial
instrument or only a component of it (for example, an embedded derivative
when it is separately accounted for) may be required to be measured
at fair value. , "Valuation
of Financial Instruments," of this guide provides further detailed
guidance on valuation of financial instruments.
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi5">Chapter 5</olink>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_26" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.26</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.26</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Some financial reporting frameworks establish
a fair value hierarchy to develop increased consistency and comparability
in fair value measurements and related disclosures. The inputs may be classified into different levels, such
as
      <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
        <para>FASB ASC 820-10-35-37 notes that the fair value hierarchy categorizes
into three levels the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure
fair value. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to
quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets
or liabilities and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs. </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">In general, measurement uncertainty increases
as a financial instrument moves from level 1 to level 2 or level 2
to level 3. Also, within level 2, there may be a wide range of measurement
uncertainty depending on the observability of inputs, the complexity
and valuation of the financial instrument, and other factors.</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>
          ,
which are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
financial assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the
measurement date.
          <emphasis role="italic">level 1 inputs</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          ,
which are inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1
that are observable for the financial asset or liability either directly
or indirectly. If the financial asset or liability has a specified
(contractual) term, a level 2 input must be observable for substantially
the full term of the financial asset or liability. Level 2 inputs
include the following:
          <emphasis role="italic">level 2 inputs</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
      <listitem>
        <para>Quoted prices for similar financial assets or liabilities
in active markets</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Quoted prices for identical or similar financial assets
or liabilities in markets that are not active</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable
for the financial asset or liability (for example, interest rates
and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals, implied
volatilities, and credit spreads)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Inputs that are derived principally from, or corroborated
by, observable market data by correlation or other means (market-corroborated
inputs)</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>
          ,
which are unobservable inputs for the financial asset or liability.
Unobservable inputs are used to measure fair value to the extent that
relevant observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for
situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the
financial asset or liability at the measurement date.
          <emphasis role="italic">level 3 inputs</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_27" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.27</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.27</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Certain financial reporting frameworks
may require or permit the entity to adjust for measurement uncertainties
in order to adjust for risks that a market participant would make
in the pricing to take account of the uncertainties of the risks associated
with the pricing or cash flows of the financial instrument. Some examples
are as follows:</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">
      Adjustments are not appropriate if they adjust
the measurement and valuation of the financial instrument away from , as defined by the applicable
financial reporting framework (for example, for conservatism).
      <emphasis role="italic">fair value</emphasis>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Model adjustments. Some models may have a known deficiency,
or the result of calibration may highlight the deficiency for the
fair value measurement in accordance with the financial reporting
framework.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Credit-risk adjustments. Some models do not take into
account credit risk, including counterparty risk or own credit risk.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Liquidity adjustments. Some models calculate a midmarket
price, even though the financial reporting framework may require use
of a liquidity-adjusted amount, such as a bid-offer spread. Another,
more judgmental liquidity adjustment recognizes that some financial
instruments are illiquid, which affects the valuation.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Other risk adjustments. A value measured using a model
that does not take into account all other factors that market participants
would consider in pricing the financial instrument may not represent
fair value on the measurement date and, therefore, may need to be
adjusted separately to comply with the applicable financial reporting
framework.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_28" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.28</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.28</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Paragraphs 5–20 of FASB ASC 820-10-55
describe the use of present value techniques to measure fair value.
Those paragraphs neither prescribe the use of a single specific present
value technique nor limit the use of present value techniques to measure
fair value to the techniques discussed therein.  (that is, an application of the income approach)
is a tool used to link future amounts to a present amount using a
discount rate. A fair value measurement of an asset or a liability
using a present value technique captures all of the following elements
from the perspective of market participants at the measurement date:
      <emphasis role="italic">Present value</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      An estimate of future cash flows for the asset or liability
being measured.
      <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
      <tab/>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      Expectations about possible variations in the amount and timing
of the cash flows representing the uncertainty inherent in the cash
flows.
      <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
      <tab/>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      The time value of money, represented by the rate on risk-free
monetary assets that have maturity dates or durations that coincide
with the period covered by the cash flows and pose neither uncertainty
in timing nor risk of default to the holder (that is, a risk-free
interest rate). For present value computations denominated in nominal
U.S. dollars, the yield curve for U.S. Treasury securities determines
the appropriate risk-free interest rate.
      <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
      <tab/>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      The price for bearing the uncertainty inherent in the cash
flows (that is, a risk premium).
      <emphasis role="italic">d.</emphasis>
      <tab/>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      Other factors that market participants would take into account
in the circumstances.
      <emphasis role="italic">e.</emphasis>
      <tab/>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      For a liability, the nonperformance risk relating to that liability,
including the reporting entity’s (obligor’s) own credit risk.
      <emphasis role="italic">f.</emphasis>
      <tab/>
    </para>
  </section>
</root>