<root id="aag-afi11_description_of_the_entity" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Description of the Entity</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Entity</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi11_23" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.23</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.23</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Austin-Jhanes is a U.S. manufacturer that
sells its products both domestically and outside the United States.
Its foreign sales are denominated in foreign currencies, although
its functional currency is the U.S. dollar.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_24" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.24</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.24</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The entity uses derivatives regularly
to hedge forecasted foreign currency-denominated sales and purchases
of raw materials. Derivatives are used to a lesser extent for management
of U.S. interest rate risk (for example, converting fixed-rate debt
to floating debt using interest rate swaps). (For purposes of this
case study, only the accounting for the hedging of a forecasted foreign
currency-denominated sale is illustrated.) Derivatives are not used
for investment purposes.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_25" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.25</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.25</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The board of directors has authorized
management of Austin-Jhanes to enter into derivatives for hedging
purposes, and the board receives periodic reports on the intent of
usage, as well as hedge effectiveness.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_26" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.26</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.26</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">All derivatives transactions are executed
through a centralized group of traders that reports to the CFO. The
traders and CFO are very knowledgeable about derivatives. There is
a formal risk management process for derivatives. Austin-Jhanes has
systems in place to monitor the risks being hedged, as well as the
ongoing effectiveness of the hedges. The trading desk executes derivatives
transactions only with counterparties that have been approved after
careful assessment of creditworthiness. There are limits on the credit
exposure to any one counterparty and the extent to which derivatives
can be used to hedge a given exposure.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_27" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.27</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.27</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      . Because of senior management’s integrity and ethical values, its
commitment to competence, its active involvement with the business,
its philosophy and operating style, and the operating structure it
has imposed, Austin-Jhanes’ overall control environment is sound.
      <emphasis role="italic">Control environment</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_28" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.28</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.28</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      . Austin-Jhanes’ CFO conducts weekly meetings with the derivatives
traders to discuss the financial markets generally and to assess the
entity’s position in derivatives, including ongoing hedge effectiveness.
This discussion includes an assessment of the valuation of the derivatives,
as well as the hedged exposures, with particular emphasis on derivatives
and exposures that are not exchange traded or are traded in a broad
interbank market. Sales forecasts, significant forecasted transactions,
and other issues also are discussed in order to plan for required
upcoming hedging activities. The use of new types of derivatives or
the execution of transactions with new counterparties must be discussed
with, and approved by, the CFO.
      <emphasis role="italic">Risk assessment</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_29" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.29</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.29</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      . Control activities include, among other things, the following:
      <emphasis role="italic">Control activities</emphasis>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Controls have been implemented with respect to control
objectives of</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
      <listitem>
        <para>completeness of records.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>validity of records.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>restricted access to assets.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>
          Segregation of the accounting function from trade
authorization and execution. The accounting department is responsible
for cash and derivatives position reconciliations between the accounting
and trading records and broker or counterparty statements. Quarterly,
the controller reviews hedging activities for compliance with the
requirements of FASB ASC 815, .
          <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives
and Hedging</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Data files with such information as counterparty limits
are maintained apart from the traders. The CFO authorizes any changes
to these files. </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Austin-Jhanes’ derivatives trading system has an automated
interface with the general ledger and updates the general ledger monthly.
Movements of cash associated with derivatives transactions are authorized
and executed by the treasurer’s department, which is separate from
the derivatives trading group.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Austin-Jhanes’ derivatives trading, sales, accounting,
and other transaction processing activities are highly automated.
There are effective general computer controls at the data centers
that process the entity’s transactions and other information.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_30" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.30</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.30</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      . The CFO and controller receive monthly reports
summarizing derivatives transactions for the period and the positions
at the end of the month. (See the discussion of monitoring controls
for descriptions of this and other reports.)
      <emphasis role="italic">Information and
communication</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_31" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.31</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.31</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The CFO advises the audit committee at
its quarterly meetings on the status of the entity’s derivatives positions,
realized and unrealized gains, compliance with Austin-Jhanes’ derivatives
policy, and any other information that would be useful for the audit
committee in carrying out its responsibilities.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_32" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.32</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.32</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The notes to the entity’s financial statements
contain a description of the entity’s accounting policy for derivatives
and other information required by the applicable financial reporting
framework. </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_33" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.33</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.33</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      . The CFO and controller perform monthly reviews of Austin-Jhanes’
performance in using derivatives, including their effectiveness, and,
in the case of hedges of forecasted transactions, whether the forecasted
transaction continues to meet the requirements for hedge accounting.
      <emphasis role="italic">Monitoring</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_34" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.34</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.34</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The CFO and controller receive monthly
reports that provide information that enables them to identify any
material breakdowns in controls, problems with the underlying systems,
or possible material misstatements in the information. The reports
include</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>realized and unrealized gain or loss on derivatives
and hedged exposures, as well as a statistical measurement of correlation
of changes in their values.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>transaction volumes and trends.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>derivatives positions by exchange; counterpart; or
type of instrument, with a comparison with established limits. The
CFO receives notification as limits are approached. The system does
not allow limits to be exceeded without the CFO’s approval.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>information on various reconciliations, including
an aging of reconciling items and resolution status.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>