<root id="aag-afi6_other_relevant_audit_considerations" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Other Relevant Audit Considerations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Other Relevant Audit Considerations</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi6_written_representations" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Written Representations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Written Representations</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi6_29" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.29</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.29</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Paragraph .16 of AU-C section 580B, , requires the auditor
to obtain written representations from management and, when appropriate,
those charged with governance about whether they believe significant
assumptions used in making accounting estimates are reasonable. AU-C
section 580B also states that written representations from management
do not provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence on their own
about any of the matters with which they deal. If the auditor is otherwise
unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, this may constitute
a limitation on the scope of the audit that may have implications
for the auditor’s report. (See AU-C section 705B.) 
        <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn14" label="fn 14" role="number">
          <para>
            See .
            <olink role="footnote" targetptr="aag-afi6_fn13">footnote
13</olink>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_30" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.30</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.30</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraph .19 of AU-C section 580B requires
that if, in addition to such required representations, the auditor
determines it is necessary to obtain one or more written representations
to support other audit evidence relevant to the financial statements
or one or more specific assertions in the financial statements, the
auditor should request such other written representations. Depending
on the volume and degree of complexity of financial instrument activities,
written representations to support other evidence obtained about financial
instruments may also include</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>management’s objectives with respect to financial
instruments (for example, whether they are used for hedging, asset
or liability management, or investment purposes).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>representations about the appropriateness of the presentation
of the financial statements (for example, the recording of financial
instrument transactions as sales or financing transactions).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>representations about the financial statement disclosures
concerning financial instruments (for example, that the records reflect
all financial instrument transactions, and all embedded derivative
instruments have been identified).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>whether all transactions have been conducted at arm’s
length and market value.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the terms of transactions.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the appropriateness of the valuations of financial
instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>whether any side agreements associated with any financial
instruments exist.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>whether the entity has entered into any written options.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            management’s intent and ability to carry out certain
actions. 
            <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn15" label="fn 15" role="number">
              <para>Paragraph .A82 of AU-C section 540B provides examples of procedures
that may be appropriate in the circumstances.</para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>whether subsequent events require adjustment to the
valuations and disclosures included in the financial statements.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_communication_with_those_charged" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Communication With Those Charged With Governance and
Others</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Communication With Those Charged With
Governance and Others</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi6_31" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.31</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.31</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Because of the uncertainties associated
with the valuation of financial instruments, the potential effects
on the financial statements of any significant risks are likely to
be of governance interest. The auditor may communicate the nature
and consequences of significant assumptions used in fair value measurements,
the degree of subjectivity involved in the development of the assumptions,
and the relative materiality of the items being measured at fair value
to the financial statements as a whole. In addition, the need for
appropriate controls over commitments to enter into financial instrument
contracts and the subsequent measurement processes are matters that
may give rise to the need for communication with those charged with
governance.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_32" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.32</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.32</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">AU-C section 260B addresses the auditor’s
responsibility to communicate with those charged with governance in
an audit of financial statements. With respect to financial instruments,
matters to be communicated to those charged with governance may include</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">The appropriate timing for communications
will vary with the circumstances of the engagement; however, it may
be appropriate to communicate significant difficulties encountered
during the audit as soon as practicable if those charged with governance
are able to assist the auditor to overcome the difficulty or if it
is likely to lead to a modified opinion.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>a lack of management understanding of the nature or
extent of the financial instrument activities or the risks associated
with such activities.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in
the design or operation of the system of internal control relating
to the entity’s financial instrument activities that the auditor has
identified during the audit.
            <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn16" label="fn 16" role="number">
              <para>
                AU-C section 265B, , addresses
the auditor’s responsibility to communicate to those charged with
governance and management deficiencies in internal control that the
auditor has identified in an audit of financial statements. It explains
that deficiencies in internal control may be identified during the
auditor’s risk assessment procedures, in accordance with AU-C section
315B, , or at
any other stage of the audit.
                <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Internal
Control Related Matters Identified in an Audit</emphasis>
                <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment
and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>significant difficulties encountered when obtaining
sufficient appropriate audit evidence relating to valuations performed
by management or management’s specialist (for example, when management
is unable to obtain an understanding of the valuation methodology,
assumptions, and data used by management’s specialists, and such information
is not made available to the auditor by management’s specialist).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>significant differences in judgments between the auditor
and management or management’s specialist regarding valuations.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the potential effects on the entity’s financial statements
of material risks and exposures required to be disclosed in the financial
statements, including the measurement uncertainty associated with
financial instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the auditor’s views about the appropriateness of the
selection of accounting policies and presentation of financial instrument
transactions in the financial statements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the auditor’s views about the qualitative aspects
of the entity’s accounting practices and financial reporting for financial
instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>a lack of comprehensive and clearly stated policies
for the purchase, sale, and holding of financial instruments, including
operational controls, procedures for designating financial instruments
as hedges, and monitoring exposures.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_communications_with_regulators_and" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Communications With Regulators and Others</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Communications With Regulators and
Others</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi6_33" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.33</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.33</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        In some cases, auditors may be required, or may consider it appropriate, to communicate directly
with regulators or others, in addition to those charged with governance,
regarding matters relating to financial instruments. Such communication
may be useful throughout the audit. For example, when required to
communicate with banking regulators, such regulators may share information
with the auditor about the operation and application of controls over
financial instrument activities, challenges in valuing financial instruments
in inactive markets, and compliance with regulations. This sharing
of information may be helpful to the auditor in identifying risks
of material misstatement.
        <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn17" label="fn 17" role="number">
          <para>
            For example, AU-C section 250B, , requires auditors to determine whether there is a responsibility
to report identified or suspected noncompliance with laws and regulations
to parties outside the entity. In addition, requirements concerning
the auditor’s communication to banking supervisors and others may
be established in many countries by law, supervisory requirement,
or formal agreement or protocol.
            <emphasis role="italic">Consideration
of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>