<root id="aag-afi_appF" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Appendix F — Accounting for Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Appendix F</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">Accounting for Financial Instruments</subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    <emphasis role="italic">This appendix is
nonauthoritative and is included for informational purposes only.</emphasis>
  </para>
  <section id="aag-afi_appF_overall_project_objective" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Overall Project Objective</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Overall Project Objective</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">The objective of FASB’s Accounting for Financial
Instruments project is to significantly improve the decision usefulness
of financial instrument reporting for users of financial statements.
The project was initiated to reconsider recognition and measurement
of financial instruments, address issues related to impairment of
financial instruments and hedge accounting, and increase convergence
in accounting for financial instruments. In replacing existing financial
instruments standards, an expected outcome is the simplification of
accounting requirements for financial instruments. The project was
split into three phases: classification and measurement, impairment,
and hedge accounting. This appendix focuses on the latest developments
in each of these phases.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_appF_classification_and_measurement" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Classification and Measurement</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Classification and Measurement</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi_appF_overview1" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Overview</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Overview</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">
        On January 5, 2016, FASB issued Accounting
Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-01, , to enhance
the reporting model for financial instruments and to provide users
of financial statements with more decision-useful information. Amendments
in the ASU are intended to improve certain aspects of recognition,
measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. 
        <emphasis role="italic">Financial
Instruments — Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement
of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">The new guidance will accomplish the following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Require equity investments (except those accounted
for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in
consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value with changes
in fair value recognized in net income.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Replace the impairment model for equity investments
without readily determinable fair values with a qualitative impairment
assessment.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Eliminate the requirement to disclose the fair values
of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortized
cost for nonpublic business entities.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Eliminate the requirement for public business entities
to disclose the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate
fair value currently required to be disclosed for financial assets
and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost on the balance
sheet.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Require public business entities to use the exit price
notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for
disclosure purposes.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Require an entity to present separately in other comprehensive
income (OCI) the portion of the total change in the fair value of
a liability resulting from a change in instrument-specific credit
risk when the entity has elected to measure the liability at fair
value in accordance with the fair value option for financial instruments. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Require separate presentation of financial assets
and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial
asset (that is, securities or loans and receivables) on the balance
sheet or in accompanying notes to the financial statements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Clarify that an entity should evaluate the need for
a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset related to available-for-sale
debt securities in combination with an entity’s other deferred tax
assets.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Eliminate an entity’s ability to estimate the disclosed
fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis
of entry prices.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_appF_applicability_and_effective_date1" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Applicability and Effective Date</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Applicability and Effective Date</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2016-01 affects all entities that
hold financial assets or have financial liabilities and is effective
as follows:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">All nonpublic business entities may adopt
the amendments in this ASU earlier as of the fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal
years.</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Early adoption by public business entities
to financial statements of fiscal years or interim periods that have
not yet been issued or, by all other entities, that have not yet been
made available for issuance of the following amendments in this ASU
are permitted as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Except for as stated in this guidance, early
adoption of the amendments in this ASU is not permitted.</para>
      <table frame="all" id="aag-afi_appF_table1" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1.92in"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="2.17in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.92in"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                <para/>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <emphasis role="bold">Fiscal Years Beginning
After</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <emphasis role="bold">Interim Periods
Within Fiscal Years Beginning After</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>
                <para>Public business entities </para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2017</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2017</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>
                <para>All other entities, including not-for-profit entities and employee
benefit plans within the scope of FASB ASC 960 through FASB ASC 965
on plan accounting</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2018</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2019</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>An entity should present separately in OCI the portion
of the total change in the fair value of a liability resulting from
a change in the instrument-specific credit risk if the entity has
elected to measure the liability at fair value in accordance with
the fair value option for financial instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            Nonpublic business entities are not required to apply
the fair value of financial instruments disclosure guidance in the
"General" subsection of FASB  (ASC) 825-10-50.
            <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards
Codification</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_appF_latest_developments1" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Latest Developments</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Latest Developments</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_fasb_asu_no__201803" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2018-03, Technical Corrections and Improvements
to Financial Instruments — Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition
and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2018-03, Technical Corrections
and Improvements to Financial Instruments — Overall (Subtopic 825-10):
Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">In February 2018, FASB issued ASU No. 2018-03
to clarify certain aspects of the guidance issued in ASU No. 2016-01
as follows: </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2018-03 is effective as follows:</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">Public business entities with fiscal years
beginning between December 15, 2017 and June 15, 2018 are not required
to adopt these amendments until the interim period beginning after
June 15, 2018, and public business entities with fiscal years beginning
between June 15, 2018 and December 15, 2018 are not required to adopt
these amendments before adopting the amendments in ASU No. 2016-01.
All entities may early adopt these amendments for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal
years, as long as they have adopted ASU No. 2016-01.</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The
amendments in this ASU clarify that an entity measuring an equity
security using the measurement alternative may change its measurement
approach to a fair value method in accordance with FASB ASC 820, , through an irrevocable
election that would apply to that security and all identical or similar
investments of the same issuer. Once an entity makes this election,
the entity should measure all future purchases of identical or similar
investments of the same issuer using a fair value method in accordance
with FASB ASC 820.
              <emphasis role="italic">Equity securities without
a readily determinable fair value — discontinuation.</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Fair Value Measurement</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendment
in this ASU clarifies that adjustments made under the measurement
alternative are intended to reflect the fair value of the security
as of the date that the observable transaction for a similar security
took place.
              <emphasis role="italic">Equity securities without
a readily determinable fair value — adjustments.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendment clarifies that remeasuring the  value of forward contracts and purchased
options is required when observable transactions occur on the underlying
equity securities.
              <emphasis role="italic">Forward contracts and purchased
options.</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">entire</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendment
clarifies that when the fair value option is elected for a financial
liability, the guidance in paragraph 5 of ASC 825-10-45 should be
applied, regardless of whether the fair value option was elected under
either FASB ASC 815-15 or 825-10.
              <emphasis role="italic">Presentation requirements
for certain fair value option liabilities.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments clarify
that for financial liabilities for which the fair value option is
elected, the amount of change in fair value that relates to the instrument-specific
credit risk should first be measured in the currency of denomination
when presented separately from the total change in fair value of the
financial liability. Then, both components of the change in the fair
value of the liability should be remeasured into the functional currency
of the reporting entity using end-of-period spot rates.
              <emphasis role="italic">Fair value option liabilities
denominated in a foreign currency.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The
amendment clarifies that the prospective transition approach for equity
securities without a readily determinable fair value in the amendments
in ASU No. 2016-01 is meant only for instances in which the measurement
alternative is applied. An insurance entity subject to the guidance
in FASB ASC 944, , should apply a prospective transition method when applying the
amendments related to equity securities without readily determinable
fair values. An insurance entity should apply the selected prospective
transition method consistently to the entity’s entire population of
equity securities for which the measurement alternative is elected.
              <emphasis role="italic">Transition guidance for equity
securities without a readily determinable fair value.</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Financial Services — Insurance</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <table frame="all" id="aag-afi_appF_table2" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1.92in"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="2.17in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.92in"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                  <para/>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">
                      <emphasis role="bold">Fiscal Years Beginning
After</emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">
                      <emphasis role="bold">Interim Periods
Within Fiscal Years Beginning After</emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <para>Public business entities </para>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <para>December 15, 2017</para>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <para>June 15, 2018</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <para>All other entities</para>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <para>December 15, 2018</para>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <para>December 15, 2019</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_fasbasu_no__201904" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2019-04, Codification Improvements to Topic
326, Financial Instruments — Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives
and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2019-04, Codification
Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments — Credit Losses,
Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">
          In April 2019, FASB issued ASU No. 2019-04
to clarify, correct, and improve various aspects of the guidance in
ASU Nos. 2016-01, 2016-13, , and 2017-12, , related to financial instruments. The discussion
herein will only address those amendments related to ASU No. 2016-01.
Amendments related to ASU Nos. 2016-13 and ASU No. 2017-12 will be
addressed in subsequent sections of this appendix.
          <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial
Instruments</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives
and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging
Activities</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2019-04 clarifies certain aspects
of the amendments in ASU No. 2016-01 as follows:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments clarify
the scope of FASB ASC 320-10 and FASB ASC 321-10 by specifically naming
health and welfare plans accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC
965,  in the paragraphs limiting the scope of
those subtopics.
              <emphasis role="italic">Scope clarifications for FASB
ASC 320-10 and FASB ASC 321-10.</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Plan Accounting — Health and Welfare
Benefit Plans,</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments to the disclosure
requirements addressed in FASB ASC 320-10-50-5 and FASB ASC 942-320-50-3
and the additions of paragraphs 5A–5B of FASB ASC 320-10-50 and paragraph
3A of FASB ASC 942-320-50 clarify FASB’s intent to exempt entities
other than public business entities from fair value disclosure requirements
for financial instruments not measured at fair value on the balance
sheet. 
              <emphasis role="italic">Held-to-maturity debt securities
fair value disclosures.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments specifically
require that an entity remeasure an equity security without readily
determinable fair value at fair value when an orderly transaction
is identified for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer
in accordance with FASB ASC 820. That is, the amendments clarify that
the measurement alternative is a nonrecurring fair value measurement.
Additionally, the amendments clarify that an entity should adhere
to the applicable disclosure requirements in FASB ASC 820 for a nonrecurring
fair value measurement.
              <emphasis role="italic">Applicability of FASB ASC
820 to the measurement alternative.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments clarify that
equity securities without readily determinable fair values accounted
for under the measurement alternative in accordance with FASB ASC
321-10-35-2 are required to follow FASB ASC 830-10-45-18, which requires
remeasurement at historical exchange rates. In addition, the amendments
clarify that the rate used should be the historical exchange rate
as of the later of the acquisition date or the most recent date on
which the equity security was adjusted to fair value in accordance
with paragraphs 2–3 of FASB ASC 321-10-35, if applicable. In addition,
the amendments to FASB ASC 830-10-45-18 are not intended to change
items that should be remeasured at historical exchange rates. 
              <emphasis role="italic">Remeasurement of equity securities
at historical exchange rates.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_effective_date1" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Effective Date</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Effective Date</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">The amendments in ASU No. 2019-04 related
to No. 2016-01 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early
adoption is permitted in any interim period following the issuance
of ASU No. 2019-04 as long as the entity has adopted all of the amendments
in ASU No. 2016-01.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_appF_impairment" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Impairment</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Impairment</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi_appF_overview2" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Overview</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Overview</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">On June 16, 2016, FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13
to provide financial statement users with more decision-useful information
about the expected credit losses on financial instruments and other
commitments to extend credit held by a reporting entity at each reporting
date. Upon the effective date of this ASU, the incurred loss impairment
methodology in current generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)
is replaced with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses
and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable
information to inform credit loss estimates. </para>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_assets_measured_at_amortized" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Assets Measured at Amortized Cost</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Assets Measured at Amortized Cost</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2016-13 eliminates the probable initial
recognition threshold under current GAAP and requires entities that
measure financial assets (or a group of financial assets) at amortized
cost basis to present such assets at the net amount expected to be
collected. The amendments in this ASU broaden the information that
an entity must consider in developing its expected credit loss estimate
for assets measured either collectively or individually. In addition
to past events and current conditions, entities should also consider
reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectibility
of the reported amount. However, an entity may revert to historical
loss information that is reflective of the contractual term (considering
the effect of prepayments) for periods that are beyond the time frame
for which the entity is able to develop reasonable and supportable
forecasts. </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">An entity may apply any method for measuring
expected credit losses as long as the entity’s method reasonably reflects
its expectations of the credit loss estimate. </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_purchased_financial_assets_with" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Purchased Financial Assets With Credit Deterioration</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Purchased Financial Assets With Credit
Deterioration</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">
          ASU No. 2016-13 defines  (PCD
assets) as acquired individual financial assets (or acquired groups
of financial assets with similar risk characteristics) that as of
the date of acquisition have experienced a more-than-insignificant
deterioration in credit quality since origination, as determined by
the acquirer’s assessment. The allowance for credit losses for PCD
assets that are measured at amortized cost basis is determined in
a similar manner to other financial assets measured at amortized cost
basis. The initial allowance for credit losses is added to the purchase
price, rather than being reported as a credit loss expense. Entities
record only subsequent changes in the allowance for credit losses
as a credit loss expense for PCD assets. Furthermore, an entity should
recognize interest income for PCD assets based on the effective interest
rate, excluding the discount embedded in the purchase price that is
attributable to the acquirer’s assessment of credit losses at acquisition. 
          <emphasis role="italic">purchased financial assets with credit deterioration</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_disclosures1" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Disclosures</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Disclosures</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">In an effort to increase users’ understanding
of underwriting standards and credit quality trends, ASU No. 2016-13
requires the current disclosure on credit quality indicators in relation
to the amortized cost of financing receivables to be further disaggregated
by year of origination (or vintage). Entities that are not public
business entities are not required to disclose the disaggregation
by year of origination. </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_available_for_sale_debt" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Available-for-Sale Debt Securities</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Available-for-Sale Debt Securities</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">Entities will now be required to present
credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities as an allowance,
rather than as a permanent write-down. </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">An entity will now be able to record reversals
of credit losses on debt securities (in situations in which the estimate
of credit declines) in current period net income, thus aligning the
income statement recognition of credit losses with the reporting period
in which changes occur. However, an entity may not record an allowance
for credit losses exceeding the amount by which fair value is below
amortized cost.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_purchased_debt_securities_with" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Purchased Debt Securities With Credit Deterioration</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Purchased Debt Securities With Credit
Deterioration</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">The allowance for credit losses for purchased
available-for-sale debt securities with a more-than-insignificant
amount of credit deterioration since origination is also determined
in a similar manner to other available-for-sale debt securities. However,
ASU No. 2016-13 requires an entity to add the initial allowance for
credit losses to the purchase price, rather than reporting it as a
credit loss expense. Entities record only subsequent changes in the
allowance for credit losses as a credit loss expense. Furthermore,
an entity should recognize interest income based on the effective
interest rate, excluding the discount embedded in the purchase price
that is attributable to the acquirer’s assessment of credit losses
at acquisition.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_troubled_debt_restructurings" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Troubled Debt Restructurings </titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Troubled Debt Restructurings </title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">The ASU does not change the definition or
derecognition guidelines for troubled debt restructurings (TDRs),
but rather changes the impairment recognized on restructuring. Credit
losses for TDRs now will be measured using the current expected credit
loss model. The ASU eliminates the current GAAP requirement to use
a discounted cash flow technique. Credit losses, including concessions
given to a borrower under a TDR, will be recognized through an allowance
account.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_appF_applicability_and_effective_date2" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Applicability and Effective Date</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Applicability and Effective Date</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2016-13 affects entities holding
financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted
for at fair value through net income. It also affects loans, debt
securities, trade receivables, net investments in leases, off-balance
sheet credit exposures, reinsurance receivables, and any other financial
assets not excluded from the scope that have the contractual right
to receive cash.</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Because there is diversity in practice in
applying the incurred loss methodology, ASU No. 2016-13 will affect
entities to varying degrees depending on the credit quality of the
assets held by the entities, their duration, and how the entity applies
current GAAP. </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">
        ASU No. 2016-13 is effective (as amended
by FASB ASU No. 2019-10, ) as follows:
        <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815),
and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">All entities may adopt the amendments in
this ASU earlier as of the fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.</para>
      <table frame="all" id="aag-afi_appF_table3" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1.92in"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="2.17in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.92in"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                <para/>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <emphasis role="bold">Fiscal Years Beginning
After</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <emphasis role="bold">Interim Periods
Within Fiscal Years Beginning After</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>
                <para>
                  Public business entities that meet the definition of SEC filers,
excluding entities eligible to be smaller reporting companies as defined
by the SEC 
                  <emphasis role="superscript">1</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2019</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2019</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>
                <para>All other entities</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2022</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2022</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry nameend="c3" namest="c1">
                <para>
                   The one-time
determination of whether an entity is eligible to be a smaller reporting
company should be based on an entity’s most recent determination as
of November 15, 2019, in accordance with SEC regulations.
                  <tab/>
                  <emphasis role="superscript">1</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_appF_transition_resource_group" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Transition Resource Group</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Transition Resource Group</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Due to the potential for significant changes
that may result from the issuance of the new standard, FASB formed
the Transition Resource Group (TRG) for Credit Losses to </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">
        The TRG will meet to discuss and share its
views on potential implementation issues raised by concerned parties
and, subsequent to each meeting, FASB will determine what actions,
if any, will be taken on each issue. Refer to the page "" on FASB’s website
for more information on this group and the status of its efforts,
including meeting materials and meeting summaries.
        <ulink url="https://www.fasb.org/jsp/FASB/Page/LandingPage&amp;cid=1176168063992">Transition Resource Group for Credit Losses</ulink>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>solicit, analyze, and discuss stakeholder issues arising
from implementation of the new guidance;</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>inform FASB about those implementation issues, which
will help FASB determine what, if any, action will be needed to address
those issues;</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>provide a forum for stakeholders to learn about the
new guidance from others involved with implementation.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_appF_latest_developments2" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Latest Developments</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Latest Developments</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_fasb_asu_no__201819" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2018-19, Codification Improvements to Topic
326, Financial Instruments — Credit Losses</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2018-19, Codification
Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments — Credit Losses</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">In November 2018, FASB issued ASU No. 2018-19
to amend the transition and effective date for nonpublic business
entities as well as clarify guidance surrounding operating receivables. </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">
          The amendments in ASU No. 2018-19 mitigate
transition complexity by requiring that for nonpublic business entities,
the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13 are effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2021, including interim periods within those fiscal
years. In addition, the amendments clarify that receivables arising
from operating leases are not with the scope of FASB ASC 326-20. Instead,
impairment of receivables arising from operating leases should be
accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC 842, .
          <emphasis role="italic">Leases</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">The effective date and transition requirements
for ASU No. 2018-19 are the same as the effective dates and transition
requirements in ASU No. 2016-13, as amended by ASU No. 2018-19.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_fasb_asu_no_201904" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2019-04</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2019-04</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">In April 2019, FASB issued ASU No. 2019-04
to clarify, correct, and improve various aspects of the guidance in
ASU Nos. 2016-01, 2016-13, and 2017-12 related to financial instruments.
The discussion herein will only address those amendments related to
ASU No. 2016-13. Amendments related to ASU No. 2016-01 and ASU No.
2017-12 will be addressed in separate sections of this appendix.</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2019-04 clarifies certain aspects
of the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13 as follows:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              . The amendments to FASB ASC 326-20 allow an entity to do the following:
              <emphasis role="italic">Accrued interest</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>Measure the allowance for credit losses on accrued
interest receivable balances separately from other components of the
amortized cost basis of associated financial assets.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Make an accounting policy election not to measure
an allowance for credit losses on accrued interest receivable amounts
if an entity writes off the uncollectible accrued interest receivable
balance in a timely manner and makes certain disclosures.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Make an accounting policy election to write off accrued
interest amounts by reversing interest income or recognizing credit
loss expense, or a combination of both. The entity also is required
to make certain disclosures.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Make an accounting policy election to present accrued
interest receivable balances and the related allowance for credit
losses for those accrued interest receivable balances separately from
the associated financial assets on the balance sheet. If the accrued
interest receivable balances and the related allowance for credit
losses are not presented as a separate line item on the balance sheet,
an entity should disclose the amount of accrued interest receivable
balances and the related allowance for credit losses and where the
balance is presented.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Elect a practical expedient to disclose separately
the total amount of accrued interest included in the amortized cost
basis as a single balance to meet certain disclosure requirements.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments
require that an entity reverse in earnings any allowance for credit
losses or valuation allowance previously measured on a loan or debt
security, reclassify and transfer the loan or debt security to the
new classification or category, and apply the applicable measurement
guidance in accordance with the new classification or category.
              <emphasis role="italic">Transfers between classification
or categories for loans and debt securities.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The
amendments clarify that an entity should include recoveries when estimating
the allowance for credit losses. In addition, expected recoveries
of amounts previously written off and expected to be written off should
be included in the valuation account and should not exceed the aggregate
of amounts previously written off and expected to be written off by
the entity. For collateral-dependent financial assets, an allowance
for credit losses that is added to the amortized cost basis of the
financial assets should not exceed amounts previously written off.
              <emphasis role="italic">Recoveries.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               Correction of incorrect cross-referencing and further clarification
surrounding the equity method losses allocation guidance.
              <emphasis role="italic">Conforming amendments.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The
amendment clarifies FASB’s intent to include all reinsurance recoverables
within the scope of FASB ASC 944 within the scope of FASB ASC 326-20,
regardless of the measurement basis of those recoverables.
              <emphasis role="italic">Clarification that reinsurance
recoverables are within the scope of FASB ASC 326-20.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The
amendments clarify FASB’s intent to provide flexibility in determining
the allowance for credit losses by removing the prohibition of using
projections of future interest rate environments when using a discounted
cash flow method to measure expected credit losses on variable-rate
financial instruments. Furthermore, an entity that uses projections
or expectations of future interest rate environments in estimating
expected cash flows should use the same assumptions in determining
the effective interest rate used to discount those expected cash flows.
The amendments also clarify that if an entity uses projections of
future interest rate environments when using a discounted cash flow
method to measure expected credit losses on variable-rate financial
instruments, it also should adjust the effective interest rate to
consider the timing (and changes in the timing) of expected cash flows
resulting from expected prepayments.
              <emphasis role="italic">Projections of interest rate
environments for variable-rate financial instruments.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments
permit an entity to make an accounting policy election to adjust the
effective interest rate used to discount expected future cash flows
for expected prepayments on financial assets within the scope of FASB
ASC 326-20 and on available-for-sale debt securities within the scope
of FASB ASC 326-20 to appropriately isolate credit risk in determining
the allowance for credit losses. Furthermore, an entity should not
adjust the effective interest rate used to discount expected cash
flows for subsequent changes in expected prepayment if the financial
asset is restructured in a TDR.
              <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of prepayments
in determining the effective interest rate.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments
clarify the guidance in FASB ASC 326-20-35-4 by specifically requiring
that an entity consider the estimated costs to sell if it intends
to sell rather than operate the collateral when the entity determines
that foreclosure on a financial asset is probable. Additionally, when
an entity adjusts the fair value of collateral for the estimated costs
to sell, the estimated costs to sell should be undiscounted if the
entity intends to sell rather than operate the collateral.
              <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of estimated
costs to sell when foreclosure is probable.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments require
that an entity present the amortized cost basis of line-of-credit
arrangements that are converted to term loans in a separate column.
              <emphasis role="italic">Vintage disclosures — line-of-credit
arrangements converted to term loans.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments clarify that an entity should
consider extension or renewal options (excluding those that are accounted
for as derivatives in accordance with FASB ASC 815, ) that are included
in the original or modified contract at the reporting date and are
not unconditionally cancellable by the entity.
              <emphasis role="italic">Contractual extensions and
renewals.</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_effective_date2" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Effective Date</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Effective Date</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">For entities that have not yet adopted the
amendments in ASU No. 2016-13, the effective dates and transition
requirements for the amendments related to ASU No. 2019-04 are the
same as the effective dates and transition requirements in ASU No.
2016-13. The transition adjustment includes adjustments made as a
result of an entity developing or amending its accounting policy upon
adoption of the amendments in ASU No. 2019-04 for determining when
accrued interest receivables are deemed uncollectible and written
off.</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">For entities that have adopted the amendments
in ASU No. 2016-13, the amendments in ASU No. 2019-04 are effective
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim
periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted in
any interim period after issuance of ASU No. 2019-04 as long as the
entity has adopted the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_fasb_asu_no__201905" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2019-05, Financial Instruments — Credit
Losses (Topic 326): Targeted Transition Relief</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2019-05, Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses (Topic 326): Targeted Transition Relief</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">
          In May 2019, FASB issued ASU No. 2019-05,
to provide entities that have certain instruments within the scope
of FASB ASC 326-20 with an option to irrevocably elect the fair value
option applied on an instrument-by-instrument basis for certain financial
assets upon the adoption of FASB ASC 326, . The fair value
option election does not apply to held-to-maturity debt securities.
An entity that elects the fair value option should subsequently apply
the guidance in FASB ASC 820-10 and 825-10. 
          <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments — Credit Losses</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">For entities that have not yet adopted the
amendments in ASU No. 2016-13, the effective date and transition methodology
for the amendments in ASU No. 2019-05 are the same as in ASU No. 2016-13.</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">For entities that have adopted the amendments
in ASU No. 2016-13, the amendments in ASU No. 2019-05 are effective
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim
periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted in
any interim period after the issuance of ASU No. 2019-05, as long
as an entity has adopted the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_fasb_asu_no__201911" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2019-11, Codification Improvements to Topic
326, Financial Instruments — Credit Losses</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2019-11, Codification
Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments — Credit Losses</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">In November 2019, FASB issued ASU No. 2019-11
to clarify, correct errors in, or improve the codification.</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2019-04 clarifies certain aspects
of the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13 as follows:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              . The amendments clarify that the allowance for credit
losses for PCD assets should include in the allowance for credit losses
expected recoveries of amounts previously written off and expected
to be written off by the entity and should not exceed the aggregate
of amounts of the amortized cost basis previously written off and
expected to be written off by an entity.
              <emphasis role="italic">Expected recoveries for PCD
assets</emphasis>
            </para>
            <para>In addition,
the amendments clarify that when a method other than a discounted
cash flow method is used to estimate expected credit losses, expected
recoveries should not include any amounts that result in an acceleration
of the noncredit discount. An entity may include increases in expected
cash flows after acquisition.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments provide transition relief by permitting entities
an accounting policy election to adjust the effective interest rate
on existing TDRs using prepayment assumptions on the date of adoption
of FASB ASC 326 rather than the prepayment assumptions in effect immediately
before the restructuring.
              <emphasis role="italic">Transition relief for TDRs.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments extend the disclosure
relief for accrued interest receivable balances to additional relevant
disclosures involving amortized cost basis.
              <emphasis role="italic">Disclosures related to accrued
interest receivables.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments clarify
that an entity should assess whether it reasonably expects the borrower
will be able to continually replenish collateral securing the financial
asset to apply the practical expedient.
              <emphasis role="italic">Financial assets secured by
collateral maintenance provisions.</emphasis>
            </para>
            <para>The amendments
clarify that an entity applying the practical expedient should estimate
expected credit losses for any difference between the amount of the
amortized cost basis that is greater than the fair value of the collateral
securing the financial asset (that is, the unsecured portion of the
amortized cost basis). An entity may determine that the expectation
of nonpayment for the amount of the amortized cost basis equal to
the fair value of the collateral securing the financial asset is zero.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendment to FASB ASC 805-20 clarifies
the guidance by removing the cross-reference to FASB ASC 310-30 in
FASB ASC 805-20-50-1 and replacing it with a cross-reference to the
guidance on PCD assets in FASB ASC 326-20.
              <emphasis role="italic">Conforming amendment to FASB
ASC 805-20.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_effective_date0" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Effective Date</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Effective Date</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">For entities that have not yet adopted the
amendments in ASU No. 2016-13 as of the issuance date of this ASU,
the effective dates and transition requirements for the amendments
are the same as the effective dates and transition requirements in
ASU No. 2016-13.</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">For entities that have adopted the amendments
in ASU No. 2016-13, the amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods
within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted in any interim
period after issuance of this ASU as long as the entity has adopted
the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_asu_no__202003" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2020-03, Codification Improvements to Financial
Instruments</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2020-03, Codification
Improvements to Financial Instruments</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">In March 2020, FASB issued ASU No. 2020-03
to clarify or improve the codification.</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2020-03 clarifies or addresses specific
issues as follows:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              . The amendments clarify that all entities are
required to provide the fair value option disclosures in paragraphs
24–32 of FASB ASC 825-10-50.
              <emphasis role="italic">Fair value option disclosures
(issue 1)</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               FASB ASC 820-10-35-2A(g) and FASB ASC 820-10-35-18L are amended
to include the phrase nonfinancial items accounted for as derivatives
under FASB ASC 815 to be consistent with the previous amendments to
FASB ASC 820-10-35 that were made by ASU No. 2018-09, .
              <emphasis role="italic">Applicability of portfolio
exception in FASB ASC 820 to nonfinancial items (issue 2).</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Codification Improvements</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments clarify
that the disclosure requirements in FASB ASC 320 apply to the disclosure
requirements in FASB ASC 942,  for depository and lending institutions.
              <emphasis role="italic">Disclosures for depository
and lending institutions (issue 3).</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Financial Services
— Depository and Lending</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments improve the understandability of the
guidance.
              <emphasis role="italic">Cross-reference to line-of-credit
or revolving-debt arrangements guidance in FASB ASC 470-50 (issue
4).</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments improve the understandability of the guidance.
              <emphasis role="italic">Cross-reference to new asset
value practical expedient in FASB ASC 820-10 (issue 5).</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              . The amendments clarify that
the contractual term of a new investment in a lease determined in
accordance with FASB ASC 842 should be the contractual term used to
measure expected credit losses under FASB ASC 326.
              <emphasis role="italic">Interaction of FASB ASC 842
and FASB ASC 326 (issue 6)</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              . The amendments to FASB ASC
860-20 clarify that when an entity regains control of financial assets
sold, an allowance for credit losses should be recorded in accordance
with FASB ASC 326.
              <emphasis role="italic">Interaction of FASB ASC 326
and FASB ASC 860-20 (issue 7)</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_effective_date7" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Effective Date</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Effective Date</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">
           The amendments related to
issues 1, 2, 4, and 5 are conforming amendments. For public business
entities, the amendments are effective upon issuance of this ASU.
For all other entities, the amendments are effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020. Early application
is permitted.
          <emphasis role="italic">Issues 1, 2, 3, 4,
and 5: Conforming amendments.</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">The amendment related to issue 3 is a conforming
amendment that affects the guidance in the amendments in ASU No. 2019-04.
That guidance relates to the amendments in ASU No. 2016-01. The effective
date of ASU No. 2019-04 for the amendments to ASU No. 2016-01 is for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim
periods within those fiscal years.</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">
          . The amendments related to issues 6
and 7 affect the guidance in the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13. The
effective date of ASU No. 2016-13 varies depending on the type of
entity. For entities that have not yet adopted the guidance in ASU
No. 2016-13, the effective dates and the transition requirements for
these amendments are the same as the effective date and transition
requirements in ASU No. 2016-13.
          <emphasis role="italic">Issues 6 and 7: Amendments
to ASU No. 2016-13</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">For entities that have adopted the guidance
in ASU No. 2016-13, the amendments are effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within
those fiscal years.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_appF_hedge_accounting" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Hedge Accounting</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Hedge Accounting</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi_appF_overview3" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Overview</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Overview</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">In August 2017, FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12
to better align an entity’s risk management activities and financial
reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both the designation
and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and
the presentation of hedge results. To meet that objective, the amendments
expand and refine hedge accounting for both nonfinancial and financial
risk components and align the recognition and presentation of the
effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial
statements.</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">The amendments in this ASU also make certain
targeted improvements to simplify the application of hedge accounting
guidance and ease the administrative burden of hedge documentation
requirements and assessing hedge effectiveness.</para>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_risk_component_hedging" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Risk Component Hedging</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Risk Component Hedging</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">Current GAAP contains limitations on how
an entity can designate the hedged risk in certain cash flow and fair
value hedging relationships. To address those current limitations,
the amendments in this ASU permit hedge accounting for risk components
in hedging relationships involving nonfinancial risk and interest
rate risk as follows:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>For a cash flow hedge of a forecasted purchase or
sale of a nonfinancial asset, an entity could designate as the hedged
risk the variability in cash flows attributable to changes in a contractually
specified component stated in the contract. The amendments remove
the requirement in current GAAP that only the overall variability
in cash flows or variability related to foreign currency risk could
be designated as the hedged risk in a cash flow hedge of a nonfinancial
asset.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>For a cash flow hedge of interest rate risk of a variable-rate
financial instrument, an entity could designate as the hedged risk
the variability in cash flows attributable to the contractually specified
interest rate. By eliminating the concept of benchmark interest rates
for hedges of variable-rate instruments in current GAAP, the amendments
remove the requirement to designate only the overall variability in
cash flows as the hedged risk in a cash flow hedge of a variable-rate
instrument indexed to a non-benchmark interest rate.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>For a fair value hedge of interest rate risk, the
amendments add the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
(SIFMA) Municipal Swap Rate as an eligible benchmark interest rate
in the United States in addition to those already permitted under
current GAAP (the U.S. Treasury Rate, the London Interbank Offered
Rate Swap Rate, and the Fed Funds Effective Swap Rate [or Overnight
Index Swap Rate]). This allows an entity that issues or invests in
fixed-rate tax-exempt financial instruments to designate as the hedged
risk changes in fair value attributable to interest rate risk related
to the SIFMA Municipal Swap Rate rather than overall changes in fair
value.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_accounting_for_the_hedged" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Accounting for the Hedged Item in Fair Value Hedges of
Interest Rate Risk</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Accounting for the Hedged Item in
Fair Value Hedges of Interest Rate Risk</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">In some cases, current GAAP contains limitations
on how an entity can designate the hedged item in a fair value hedge
of interest rate risk. In other cases, current GAAP contains limitations
on how an entity can measure changes in fair value of the hedged item
attributable to interest rate risk in certain fair value hedging relationships.
Those limitations may not align with an entity’s risk management strategies
or the way in which interest rate risk can be hedged in the cash flow
hedging model. To resolve those issues, the amendments in this ASU
change the guidance for designating fair value hedges of interest
rate risk and for measuring the change in fair value of the hedged
item in fair value hedges of interest rate risk. Specifically, the
amendments:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Permit an entity to measure the change in fair value
of the hedged item on the basis of the benchmark rate component of
the contractual coupon cash flows determined at hedge inception, rather
than on the full contractual coupon cash flows as required by current
GAAP.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Permit an entity to measure the hedged item in a partial-term
fair value hedge of interest rate risk by assuming the hedged item
has a term that reflects only the designated cash flows being hedged.
Current GAAP does not allow this methodology when calculating the
change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to interest
rate risk.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>For prepayable financial instruments, permit an entity
to consider only how changes in the benchmark interest rate affect
a decision to settle a debt instrument before its scheduled maturity
in calculating the change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable
to interest rate risk.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>For a closed portfolio of prepayable financial assets
or one or more beneficial interests secured by a portfolio of prepayable
financial instruments, permit an entity to designate an amount that
is not expected to be affected by prepayments, defaults, and other
events affecting the timing and amount of cash flows (the "last-of-layer"
method). Under this designation, prepayment risk is not incorporated
into the measurement of the hedged item.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_recognition_and_presentation_of" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Recognition and Presentation of the Effects of Hedging
Instruments</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Recognition and Presentation of the
Effects of Hedging Instruments</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">The amendments in this ASU also align the
recognition and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument
and the hedged item in the financial statements to increase the understandability
of the results of an entity’s intended hedging strategies.</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">The amendments in this ASU require an entity
to present the earnings effect of the hedging instrument in the same
income statement line item in which the earnings effect of the hedged
item is reported. This presentation enables users of financial statements
to better understand the results and costs of an entity’s hedging
program. Also, relative to current GAAP, this approach simplifies
the financial statement reporting for qualifying hedging relationships.
The amendments in this ASU require the following recognition and presentation
guidance for qualifying hedges:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>For fair value hedges, the entire change in the fair
value of the hedging instrument included in the assessment of hedge
effectiveness is presented in the same income statement line that
is used to present the earnings effect of the hedged item. The timing
of recognition of the change in fair value of a hedging instrument
included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness is the same as under
current GAAP, but the presentation of hedge results could change because
current GAAP does not specify a required presentation of the change
in fair value of the hedging instrument.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>For cash flow and net investment hedges, the entire
change in the fair value of the hedging instrument included in the
assessment of hedge effectiveness is recorded in other comprehensive
income (for cash flow hedges) or in the currency translation adjustment
section of other comprehensive income (for net investment hedges).
Those amounts are reclassified to earnings in the same income statement
line item that is used to present the earnings effect of the hedged
item when the hedged item affects earnings. The timing of recognition
of the change in fair value of a hedging instrument could change relative
to current GAAP because hedge ineffectiveness no longer is recognized
currently in earnings. The presentation of hedge results also could
change because current GAAP does not specify a required presentation
of the change in fair value of the hedging instrument in the income
statement.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_amounts_excluded_from_the" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Amounts Excluded from the Assessment of Hedge Effectiveness</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Amounts Excluded from the Assessment
of Hedge Effectiveness</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">Current GAAP permits an entity to exclude
option premiums and forward points from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
The amendments in this ASU continue to allow an entity to exclude
those components of a hedging instrument’s change in fair value from
the assessment of hedge effectiveness. Additionally, the amendments
permit an entity to exclude the portion of the change in fair value
of a currency swap that is attributable to a cross-currency basis
spread from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">For all types of hedges, if an entity excludes
certain portions of a hedging instrument’s change in fair value from
the assessment of hedge effectiveness (excluded component), the amendments
permit an entity to recognize in earnings the initial value of the
excluded component using a systematic and rational method over the
life of the hedging instrument. If an entity elects this method, any
difference between the change in fair value of the excluded component
and amounts recognized under the systematic and rational method is
recognized in other comprehensive income, whereas for net investment
hedges, the difference is recognized in the cumulative translation
adjustment section of other comprehensive income. An entity also may
elect to recognize all fair value changes in an excluded component
currently in earnings, consistent with current GAAP.</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">For fair value and cash flow hedges, an entity
should present amounts related to excluded components that are recognized
in earnings in the same income statement line item that is used to
present the earnings effect of the hedged item. For net investment
hedges, the amendments do not specify a required presentation for
excluded components.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_other_simplifications_of_hedge" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Other Simplifications of Hedge Accounting Guidance</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Other Simplifications of Hedge Accounting
Guidance</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">The amendments alter effectiveness testing
as follows:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>In instances in which initial quantitative testing
is required, an entity may perform subsequent assessments of hedge
effectiveness qualitatively. An entity that makes this election is
required to verify and document on a quarterly basis that the facts
and circumstances related to the hedging relationship have not changed
such that the entity can assert qualitatively that the hedging relationship
was and continues to be highly effective. An entity may elect to perform
qualitative assessments on a hedge-by-hedge basis.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>For purposes of assessing whether the qualifying criteria
for the critical terms match method are met for a group of forecasted
transactions, an entity may assume that the hedging derivative matures
at the same time as the forecasted transactions if both the derivative
maturity and the forecasted transactions occur within the same 31-day
period or fiscal month.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Entities will be able to perform the initial prospective
quantitative assessment of hedge effectiveness at any time after hedge
designation, but no later than the first quarterly effectiveness testing
date, using data applicable as of the date of hedge inception.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>To provide additional relief on the timing of hedge
documentation, private companies that are not financial institutions
and not-for-profit entities (except for not-for-profit entities that
have issued, or are a conduit bond obligor for, securities that are
traded, listed, or quoted on an exchange or an over-the-counter market)
may select the method of assessing hedge effectiveness, and perform
the initial quantitative effectiveness assessment and all quarterly
hedge effectiveness assessments before the date on which the next
interim (if applicable) or annual financial statements are available
to be issued. This incremental relief does not affect the simplified
hedge accounting approach for private companies.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>If an entity that applies the shortcut method determines
that use of that method was not or no longer is appropriate, the entity
may apply a long-haul method for assessing hedge effectiveness as
long as the hedge is highly effective and the entity documents at
inception which long-haul methodology it will use.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_disclosures2" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Disclosures</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Disclosures</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">The amendments in this ASU require a tabular
disclosure related to the effect on the income statement of fair value
and cash flow hedges and eliminate the requirement to disclose the
ineffective portion of the change in fair value of hedging instruments.
The amendments also require new tabular disclosures related to cumulative
basis adjustments for fair value hedges.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_appF_applicability_and_effective_date3" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Applicability and Effective Date</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Applicability and Effective Date</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2017-12 applies to any entity that
elects to apply hedge accounting in accordance with current GAAP and
is effective (as amended by FASB ASU No. 2019-10) as follows:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Early application is permitted in any interim
period after issuance of this ASU. All transition requirements and
elections should be applied to hedging relationships existing (that
is, hedging relationships in which the hedging instrument has not
expired, been sold, terminated, or exercised or the entity has not
removed the designation of the hedging relationship) on the date of
adoption. The effect of adoptions should be reflected as of the beginning
of the fiscal year of adoption (that is, the initial application date). </para>
      <table frame="all" id="aag-afi_appF_table4" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1.92in"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="2.17in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.92in"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                <para/>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <emphasis role="bold">Fiscal Years Beginning
After</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <emphasis role="bold">Interim Periods
Within Fiscal Years Beginning After</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>
                <para>Public business entities </para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2018</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2018</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>
                <para>All other entities </para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2020</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2021</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_appF_latest_developments3" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Latest Developments</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Latest Developments</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_fasb_asu_no__2019_04" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2019-04</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2019-04</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">In April 2019, FASB issued ASU No. 2019-04
to clarify, correct, and improve various aspects of the guidance in
ASU Nos. 2016-01, 2016-13, and 2017-12 related to financial instruments.
The discussion herein will only address those amendments related to
ASU No. 2017-12. Amendments related to ASU Nos. 2016-01 and ASU No.
2016-13 were addressed in previous sections of this appendix.</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2019-04 clarifies certain aspects
of the amendments in ASU No. 2017-12 as follows:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments clarify that an entity
may measure the change in fair value of a hedged item using an assumed
term only for changes attributable to interest rate risk. They also
clarify that an entity may measure the change in the fair value of
the hedged item attributable to interest rate risk using an assumed
term when the hedged item is designated in a hedge of both interest
rate risk and foreign exchange risk. In that instance, the change
in carrying value of the hedged item attributable to foreign exchange
risk must continue to be measured based on changes in the spot exchange
rate in accordance with FASB ASC 815-25-35-18. In addition, the amendments
clarify that one or more separately designated partial-term fair value
hedging relationships of a single financial instrument can be outstanding
at the same time, and for forward-starting partial-term fair value
hedges, the issuance of the hedged item is assumed to occur on the
date in which the first hedged cash flow begins to accrue.
              <emphasis role="italic">Partial-term fair value hedges
of interest rate risk.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments clarify that an
entity may, but is not required to, begin to amortize a fair value
hedge basis adjustment before the fair value hedging relationship
is discontinued. If an entity elects to amortize the basis adjustment
during an outstanding partial-term hedge, that basis adjustment should
be fully amortized by the hedged item’s assumed maturity date in accordance
with FASB ASC 815-25-35-13B.
              <emphasis role="italic">Amortization of fair value
hedge basis adjustments.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments clarify that available-for-sale
debt securities should be disclosed at their amortized cost and that
fair value hedge basis adjustments related to foreign exchange risk
should be excluded from the disclosures required by FASB ASC 815-10-50-4EE.
              <emphasis role="italic">Disclosure of fair value hedge
basis adjustments.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendment clarifies that an entity should consider
the contractually specified interest rate being hedged when applying
the hypothetical derivative method.
              <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of the hedged
contractually specified interest rate under the hypothetical derivative
method.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments clarify that a not-for-profit entity that does not
separately report earnings may not elect the amortization approach
for amounts excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for fair
value hedging relationships. 
              <emphasis role="italic">Scope for not-for-profit entities.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments clarify that a private company that is not a financial
institution as described in FASB ASC 942-320-50-1 should document
the analysis supporting a last-of-layer hedge designation concurrently
with hedge inception. Not-for-profit entities (except for not-for-profit
entities that have issued, or are a conduit bond obligor for, securities
that are traded, listed, or quoted on an exchange or an over-the-counter
market) qualify for the same subsequent quarterly hedge effectiveness
assessment timing relief for which certain private companies qualify
in accordance with FASB ASC 815-20-25-142.
              <emphasis role="italic">Hedge accounting provisions
applicable to certain private companies and not-for-profit entities.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendments clarify that the application
of the first-payments-received cash flow hedging technique to changes
in overall cash flows on a group of variable interest payments continues
to be permitted.
              <emphasis role="italic">Application of a first-payments-received
cash flow hedging technique to overall cash flows on a group of variable
interest payments.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
               The amendment to FASB ASC 815-20-65-3(e)(1) clarifies that transition
adjustments to amend the measurement methodology of the hedged item
in a fair value hedge of interest rate risk should be made as of the
date of initial application of ASU No. 2017-12. The date of initial
application differs from the date of adoption if an entity adopts
the amendments in ASU No. 2017-12 in an interim period. The amendments
also clarify the following:
              <emphasis role="italic">Transition guidance update.</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>An entity may rebalance its fair value hedging relationships
of interest rate risk when it modifies the measurement methodology
used for the hedged item from total contractual coupon cash flows
to the benchmark rate component of the contractual coupon cash flows
by any combination of increasing or decreasing the designated notional
of the hedging instrument or increasing or decreasing the designated
proportion of the hedged item. However, the entity may not add new
hedged items or hedging instruments to the hedging relationship. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>An entity may transition from a quantitative method
of hedge effectiveness assessment to a method comparing the hedging
relationship’s critical terms in accordance with paragraphs 84 and
85 of FASB ASC 815-20-25 or paragraphs 129–129A of FASB ASC 815-20-25
without dedesignating the existing hedging relationship if the guidance
in those paragraphs is met.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>A debt security reclassified from held-to-maturity
to available-for-sale in accordance with FASB ASC 815-20-65-3(e)(7)
does not call into question an entity’s assertion to hold to maturity
those debt securities that continue to be classified as held-to-maturity,
is not required to be designated in a last-of-layer hedging relationship,
and may be sold by an entity after reclassification.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi_appF_effective_date3" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Effective Date</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Effective Date</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">For entities that have not yet adopted the
amendments in ASU No. 2017-12 as of the issuance date of ASU No. 2019-04,
the effective dates and transition requirements for the amendments
to FASB ASC 815 are the same as the effective dates and transition
requirements in ASU No. 2017-12.</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">For entities that have adopted the amendments
in ASU No. 2017-12 as of the issuance date of ASU No. 2019-04, the
effective date is as of the beginning of the first annual period beginning
after the issuance date of ASU No. 2019-04. For those entities, early
adoption is permitted, including adoption on any date on or after
the issuance of ASU No. 2019-04.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_appF_conclusion" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Conclusion</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Conclusion</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">
      The extent of the effect of the new financial
instruments standards will depend upon the relative significance of
financial instruments to an entity’s operations and financial positon
as well as the entity’s business strategy. To provide CPAs with guidance
during this time of transition, the AICPA’s  offers invaluable resources on the topic. In
addition, the FRC includes a list of conferences, webcasts, and products
to keep you informed on the latest developments in accounting for
financial instruments. 
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc.html">Financial Reporting
Center (FRC)</ulink>
    </para>
  </section>
</root>