<root id="aag-afi8_scenario_b" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Scenario B — Discretionary Investing Arrangement With
Two Service Organizations: an Investment Adviser and a Broker-Dealer</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Scenario B — Discretionary Investing
Arrangement With Two Service Organizations: an Investment Adviser
and a Broker-Dealer</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi8_16" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>8.16</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">8.16</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In this scenario, Lane has authorized
the investment adviser to initiate trades on its behalf under a discretionary
arrangement, and the broker-dealer executes the trades and holds and
services financial instruments purchased.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_the_understanding_of_processes1" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>The Understanding of Processes and Controls the Auditor
Needs to Assess the Risk of Material Misstatement</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Understanding of Processes and Controls
the Auditor Needs to Assess the Risk of Material Misstatement</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_17" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.17</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.17</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In order to assess the risks of material
misstatements, the auditor would obtain the following understanding
of processes and controls:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>The investment adviser initiates trades within parameters
set by Lane, and the investment adviser directs the broker-dealer
to execute them.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The broker-dealer sends a confirmation of each trade
to the investment adviser and Lane, which Lane usually receives within
three business days.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            Lane records the trade in the applicable general ledger
accounts when it receives the trade confirmation.
            <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
              <para>In this scenario, recording trades when Lane Components, Inc.
(Lane) receives the broker-dealer’s monthly statements may also be
an effective control for Lane.</para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Monthly, the broker-dealer sends the investment adviser
and Lane a statement that includes trades, servicing transactions,
a description of the financial instruments held, and the fair value
of each of those financial instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Quarterly, the investment adviser provides Lane with
a summary of trades it has initiated and the performance of the financial
instruments’ portfolio. Monthly, Lane compares the information about
trades and the components of its financial instruments’ portfolio
shown in its accounting records (which are recorded based on confirmations
and statements from the broker-dealer) with the information in the
investment adviser’s monthly statement and identifies and investigates
any significant differences.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>At the end of the year, Lane records any trades initiated
by the investment adviser for which confirmations have not been received.
Information for recording that information is obtained from Lane’s
reconciliation of the investment adviser’s information with the broker-dealer’s
information.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Monthly, Lane records servicing transactions and changes
in unrealized holding gains and losses based on information in the
broker-dealer’s monthly statement. Lane compares the broker-dealer
information with its expectations based on published information and
investigates significant differences.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The broker-dealer’s execution of trades and holding
of financial instruments are not part of Lane’s information system.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi8_18" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.18</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.18</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">With respect to whether obtaining an understanding
of the controls of the investment adviser and broker-dealer is necessary
to plan the audit, the auditor concludes there is a high degree of
interaction between Lane’s activities and those of the broker-dealer
and investment adviser. Lane is able to and elects to implement effective
controls over the activities of the broker-dealer and the investment
adviser, including the investment adviser’s controls over initiation
of trades and the broker-dealer’s controls over servicing financial
instruments. Lane performs the following procedures:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Reconciles the investment adviser’s information with
the broker-dealer’s information and investigates significant differences</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Compares broker-dealer information about servicing
and fair values with its expectations based on published information
and investigates significant differences</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_the_auditors_assessment_of1" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>The Auditor’s Assessment of Control Risk</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Auditor’s Assessment of Control Risk</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_19" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.19</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.19</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor concludes that audit risk
can be reduced to an acceptable level without tests of Lane’s controls
over financial instruments and financial instrument transactions.
In addition, the auditor concludes that the number of financial instruments
and financial instrument transactions is small enough that gathering
audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of Lane’s controls
sufficient to support an assessment of control risk as low or moderate
is not likely to significantly improve audit efficiency.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi8_20" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.20</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.20</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">However, if the number of transactions
increases in future years, the auditor will reconsider that conclusion.
For example, the auditor may be able to reduce the number of trades
tested by gathering audit evidence about the operating effectiveness
of Lane’s controls over the reconciliation of the investment adviser’s
information with the broker-dealer’s information and by identifying
and investigating any significant differences. Such audit evidence
might be gathered by inspecting the documentation of some of the reconciliations,
noting their timeliness, and inspecting the documentation of the analysis
of results and investigation of significant differences.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_the_auditors_design_of1" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>The Auditor’s Design of Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Auditor’s Design of Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_21" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.21</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.21</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor identifies the objectives
for the audit of assertions about financial instruments and financial
instrument transactions and designs related procedures:</para>
      <table frame="all" id="aag-afi8_table2" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.97in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="2.99in"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <emphasis role="bold">Audit Objective</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <emphasis role="bold">Procedure</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The recorded financial instruments exist, and Lane has the rights
and obligations associated with ownership of the recorded financial
instruments.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Confirm with the broker-dealer the name of the investee,
the number of shares, whether the shares are pledged, and that Lane
is the owner. </para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The recorded financial instrument transactions occurred.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Inspect supporting documentation, such as trade confirmations
or entries in the broker-dealer’s monthly statements.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>All the financial instruments that Lane owns and all its financial
instrument transactions have been recorded.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Test the reconciliation of the investment adviser’s
information with the broker-dealer’s information.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Perform analytical procedures on dividends and realized
and unrealized gains and losses.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The financial instruments are recorded at their fair value,
determined by following the requirements of FASB ASC 320.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Obtain the per-share price quoted by the exchange
at the balance sheet date, and compare the quoted price with the price
Lane used.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Test the extension of the number of shares at the
quoted price. </para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Realized and unrealized holding gains and losses are properly
reported as earnings or other comprehensive income. </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Evaluate management’s considerations in ensuring that
the requirements of FASB ASC 320 were satisfied.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Review journal entries for propriety.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The financial instruments are properly classified. </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Gather audit evidence about the classification of
the financial instruments as available for sale. </para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Disclosures about financial instruments and financial instrument
transactions are adequate.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Read the financial statements, and compare the disclosures
about financial instruments and financial instrument transactions
with the requirements of FASB ASC 320-10-50.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>