<root id="aag-afi5_impairment_losses" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Impairment Losses</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Impairment Losses</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi5_update_5-3">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
5-3 : Auditing Accounting
Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related
Disclosures
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In July 2020, the AICPA issued ,  (AU-C sec. 540), which supersedes , , and amends the following AU-C
sections: 
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">AU-C section 540A</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_240">Section 240</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement
Audit</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_260">Section 260</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication With Those
Charged With Governance </emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_580">Section 580</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">Section 701</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
       addresses the auditor’s responsibilities relating
to accounting estimates, including fair value accounting estimates
and related disclosures, in an audit of financial statements.
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
    </para>
    <para>
      This SAS is effective for audits of financial statements for
periods ending on or after December 15, 2023. A link to the final
SAS and other resources can be found on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <section id="aag-afi5_41" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.41</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.41</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Regardless of the valuation method used
(including those investments reported based on an investee’s financial
results), applicable financial reporting frameworks may require recognizing
in earnings an impairment loss for a decline in fair value that is
other than temporary. Determining whether losses are other than temporary
often involves estimating the outcome of future events. Accordingly,
judgment is required in determining whether factors exist that indicate
that an impairment loss has been incurred at the end of the reporting
period. These judgments are based on subjective, as well as objective,
factors, including knowledge and experience about past and current
events and assumptions about future events. The following are examples
of such factors:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Fair value is significantly below cost, and</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
      <listitem>
        <para>the decline is attributable to adverse conditions
specifically related to the security or conditions in an industry
or a geographic area.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the decline has existed for an extended period of
time.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>management does not possess both the intent and ability
to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for
any anticipated recovery in fair value.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>The security has been downgraded by a rating agency.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The financial condition of the issuer or counterparty
has deteriorated.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Dividends have been reduced or eliminated, or scheduled
interest payments have not been made.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The entity recorded losses from the security subsequent
to the end of the reporting period.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_42" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.42</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.42</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      AU-C section 501B, , requires the auditor to ()
evaluate management’s conclusion (including the relevance of the information
considered) about the need to recognize an impairment loss for a decline
in a security’s fair value below its cost or carrying amount and () obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence
supporting the amount of any impairment adjustment recorded, including
evaluating whether the requirements of the applicable financial reporting
framework have been complied with. That includes evaluating () whether management has considered relevant information in determining
whether factors such as those listed in  exist and () management’s conclusions about the need to recognize an impairment
loss. That evaluation requires the auditor to obtain evidence about
such factors that tend to corroborate or conflict with management’s
conclusions.
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations for Selected Items</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn12" label="fn 12" role="number">
        <para>
          Paragraph .09 of AU-C section 501B, .
          <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations for Selected Items</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi5_03">paragraph 5.03</olink>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_43" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.43</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.43</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor is not responsible for designing
procedures to detect the presence of these factors per se. Rather,
the auditor might evaluate whether management has considered information
that would be relevant in determining whether such factors exist.
For example, the auditor would not be responsible for determining
whether the financial condition of the issuer of a security has deteriorated
but, instead, would ask management how it considered the issuer’s
financial condition. Once the auditor has determined that the entity
considered relevant information, the auditor is responsible for evaluating
management’s conclusion about the need to recognize an impairment
loss. </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_44" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.44</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.44</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">If the entity has recognized an impairment
loss, and the auditor agrees with that conclusion, the auditor would</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>determine that the write-down of an investment to
a new cost basis is accounted for as a realized loss.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>test the calculation of the loss recorded.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>determine that the new cost basis of investments previously
written down is not changed for subsequent recoveries in fair value.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>review a summary of investments written down for completeness
and unusual items.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>evaluate management’s assessment of the credit rating
of the counterparty.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>conclude on the adequacy of impairment adjustments
recorded.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>