<root id="aag-afi_appF_recognition_and_presentation_of" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Recognition and Presentation of the Effects of Hedging
Instruments</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Recognition and Presentation of the
Effects of Hedging Instruments</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">The amendments in this ASU also align the
recognition and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument
and the hedged item in the financial statements to increase the understandability
of the results of an entity’s intended hedging strategies.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">The amendments in this ASU require an entity
to present the earnings effect of the hedging instrument in the same
income statement line item in which the earnings effect of the hedged
item is reported. This presentation enables users of financial statements
to better understand the results and costs of an entity’s hedging
program. Also, relative to current GAAP, this approach simplifies
the financial statement reporting for qualifying hedging relationships.
The amendments in this ASU require the following recognition and presentation
guidance for qualifying hedges:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>For fair value hedges, the entire change in the fair
value of the hedging instrument included in the assessment of hedge
effectiveness is presented in the same income statement line that
is used to present the earnings effect of the hedged item. The timing
of recognition of the change in fair value of a hedging instrument
included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness is the same as under
current GAAP, but the presentation of hedge results could change because
current GAAP does not specify a required presentation of the change
in fair value of the hedging instrument.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>For cash flow and net investment hedges, the entire
change in the fair value of the hedging instrument included in the
assessment of hedge effectiveness is recorded in other comprehensive
income (for cash flow hedges) or in the currency translation adjustment
section of other comprehensive income (for net investment hedges).
Those amounts are reclassified to earnings in the same income statement
line item that is used to present the earnings effect of the hedged
item when the hedged item affects earnings. The timing of recognition
of the change in fair value of a hedging instrument could change relative
to current GAAP because hedge ineffectiveness no longer is recognized
currently in earnings. The presentation of hedge results also could
change because current GAAP does not specify a required presentation
of the change in fair value of the hedging instrument in the income
statement.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>