<root id="aag-afi3_44" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>3.44</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">3.44</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">
    The case study in , "Case Study of How an Entity’s
Use of a Service Organization Affects the Auditor’s Considerations
in Auditing Financial Instruments," of this guide discusses the effect
on the auditor’s consideration of the risk of material misstatement
of financial statement assertions about financial instruments if one
or more service organizations provides financial instrument services
to the entity under a discretionary arrangement. Those discussions
address the following two types of situations:
    <olink targetptr="aag-afi8">chapter 8</olink>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Two separate service organizations. In this situation,
one service organization initiates transactions as an investment adviser,
and a second service organization holds and services the financial
instruments. The auditor may corroborate information provided by the
two organizations. For example, the auditor may confirm holdings with
the holder of the financial instruments and apply other substantive
procedures to transactions reported by the user entity based on information
provided by the investment adviser. Depending on the facts and circumstances,
the auditor also may confirm transactions or holdings with the investment
adviser and review the reconciliation of differences. </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>One service organization. In this situation, one service
organization initiates transactions as an investment adviser and also
holds and services the financial instruments. All the information
available to the auditor is based on one service organization’s information.
Therefore, the auditor may have to obtain evidence about the operating
effectiveness of the service organization’s controls. The auditor
may be unable to obtain an understanding of the user entity’s internal
control over financial instrument transactions; assess the risk of
material misstatement for financial statement assertions about financial
instruments; and design and perform further audit procedures, including
substantive audit procedures, to address those risks without obtaining
audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of relevant service
organization controls. An example of such controls is establishing
independent departments that provide the investment advisory services
and the holding and servicing of financial instruments, then reconciling
the information about the financial instruments provided by each department.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>