<root id="aag-afi_appC" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Appendix C — Examples of Control Objectives, Related
Controls, and Illustrative Tests of Controls for Financial Instruments
(Ref: par. 3.37)</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Appendix C</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">
      Examples of Control Objectives,
Related Controls, and Illustrative Tests of Controls for Financial
Instruments (Ref: )
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi3_37">par. 3.37</olink>
    </subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    <emphasis role="italic">This appendix is
nonauthoritative and is included for informational purposes only.</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">The following table provides examples of
control objectives, related controls, and illustrative tests of controls
for financial instruments. The illustrative tests of controls may
contain multiple tests addressing the same related controls. It is
not necessarily intended that all illustrative tests would be performed
for each related control; rather, they are included for example purposes.</para>
  <table frame="all" id="aag-afi_appC_table1" role="ps_table_center">
    <title/>
    <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
      <colspec colname="c1" colsep="1" colwidth="1.81in"/>
      <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="2.32in"/>
      <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.98in"/>
      <thead>
        <row>
          <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">
                <emphasis role="bold">Control Objective</emphasis>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">
                <emphasis role="bold">Related Controls</emphasis>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="center" colsep="0" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">
                <emphasis role="bold">Illustrative Tests
of Controls</emphasis>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Financial instrument transactions are initiated in accordance
with management’s established policies and procedures.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Guidelines have been prescribed for acceptable risk and rate
of return levels for the entity’s financial instruments. Financial
instrument personnel must obtain approval to purchase financial instruments
that do not conform with the prescribed guidelines. Supervisory personnel
monitor financial instrument purchases to determine whether approval
was obtained to purchase financial instruments that do not conform
with the prescribed guidelines.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Inspecting documentation of the monitoring by supervisory personnel
to determine whether approval was obtained to purchase financial instruments
that do not conform with the prescribed guidelines and testing some
of the purchases the supervisory personnel reviewed.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry rowsep="0"/>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Lists of authorized financial instrument dealers are maintained
and updated periodically, and supervisory personnel periodically review
documentation of financial instrument transactions to determine whether
only authorized dealers were used.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Inspecting documentation of the review by supervisory personnel
of financial instrument transactions to determine whether only authorized
dealers were used and testing some of the transactions the supervisory
personnel reviewed.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry rowsep="0"/>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Those charged with governance, generally through their finance,
asset or liability, investment, or other committee, review reports
of financial instrument transactions to determine whether the entity’s
guidelines for financial instrument transactions are being complied
with.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Inspecting minutes of meetings of those charged with governance
or the finance, asset or liability, investment, or other committee
for evidence of review of reports of financial instrument transactions
and evidence of approval of changes in financial instrument policies.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top"/>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Those charged with governance, generally through their finance,
asset or liability, investment, or other committee, must approve changes
in financial instrument policies, and approval must be documented.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Inspecting minutes of meetings of those charged with governance
or the finance, asset or liability, investment, or other committee
for evidence of review of reports of financial instrument transactions
and evidence of approval of changes in financial instrument policies.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Information relating to financial instruments and financial
instrument transactions is complete and accurate.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Duties among those who initiate financial instrument transactions,
have access to financial instruments, and post or reconcile related
accounting records are appropriately segregated, and supervisory personnel
regularly review reconciliations of information provided by individuals
performing these functions.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Inspecting documentation of the review by supervisory personnel
of reconciliations of information about financial instrument transactions
provided by the segregated functions and testing some of the reconciliations
they reviewed.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top"/>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Supervisory personnel periodically review documentation supporting
the acquisition and transfer of financial instruments to ensure that
classification of the financial instruments was made and documented
at acquisition (and date of transfer, if applicable) and is in accordance
with the entity’s financial instrument policies, management’s intent,
and the applicable financial reporting framework.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Inspecting documentation of the review by supervisory personnel
of the documentation supporting the acquisition and transfer of financial
instruments and inspecting a sample of the documentation they reviewed.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top"/>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Supervisory personnel periodically review accounting entries
supporting financial instrument transactions.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Inspecting documentation of the review by supervisory personnel
of accounting entries and testing a sample of the entries they reviewed.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top"/>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Supervisory personnel periodically review trader (sales function)
to operations (administrative and support services) reconciliations
for open positions and profit and loss.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Inspecting documentation of the review by supervisory personnel
of accounting entries and testing a sample of the entries they reviewed.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top"/>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Supervisory personnel periodically analyze recorded interest
and dividend income, including comparing actual yields during the
period with expected yields based on previous results and current
market trends, and investigate significant differences from the expected
results.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Inspecting documentation of the analysis by supervisory personnel
of recorded interest and dividend income and testing the resolution
of significant differences from their expectations.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Derivatives accounted for as hedges meet the designation, documentation,
and assessment requirements of the applicable financial reporting
framework.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Hedge documentation is prepared contemporaneous with the hedging
transactions and reviewed by supervisory personnel for compliance
with the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Obtaining hedge documentation prepared by the entity and all
related contracts and agreements for the transaction. Compare the
documentation to the applicable financial reporting framework requirements,
noting contemporaneous preparation with the transaction and evidence
of the review by supervisory personnel.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Financial instruments are on hand or held in custody or for
safekeeping by others.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Supervisory personnel periodically review recorded financial
instruments, compare them with safekeeping ledgers and timely custodial
confirmations, and investigate significant differences.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Inspecting documentation of the review by supervisory personnel.</para>
            <para>Comparing reconciliations to custodial confirmations and general
ledger accounts.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>The carrying amount of debt, equity securities, and financial
instruments is adjusted to fair value, when applicable, and changes
in the fair value of those financial instruments are accounted for
in conformity with the applicable financial reporting framework.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Duties of those committing the entity to underlying transactions
are segregated from those responsible for undertaking the valuations
of financial instruments.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Obtaining an understanding of the entity’s controls over the
initiation of financial instrument transactions and the valuation
of the financial instruments recorded by the transactions.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry rowsep="0"/>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Supervisory personnel periodically review the recorded fair
values of financial instruments and investigate significant differences
from the amounts expected.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Inspecting documentation of the review by supervisory personnel.</para>
            <para>Testing their investigation of significant differences.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry rowsep="0"/>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Service organizations are utilized for pricing services or other
fair value determinations.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Obtaining an understanding of the role of the service organization
in the calculation of fair value of financial instruments.</para>
            <para>Inspecting documentation of management’s review of the activities
performed by the service organization.</para>
            <para>Obtaining and evaluating a report on the service organization
controls.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry rowsep="0"/>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Specialists are engaged to determine fair value measurements.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Determining the nature, timing, and extent of the audit procedures
to be performed in auditing the work of an auditor’s specialists.</para>
            <para>Evaluating the competence, capabilities, and objectivity of
the auditor’s specialist.</para>
            <para>Obtaining an understanding of the field of expertise of the
auditor’s specialists.</para>
            <para>Obtaining an agreement with the auditor’s specialists.</para>
            <para>Evaluating the adequacy of the work of the auditor’s specialists.</para>
            <para>Inspecting documentation of management’s and, when appropriate,
those charged with governance’s review and approval of fair value
measurements (estimates) determined by specialists.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry/>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Supervisory personnel monitor realized gains and losses to determine
that appropriate amounts have been reclassified from accumulated other
comprehensive income.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Testing a sample of financial instruments by agreeing published
price quotations in an active market to fair value calculations utilized
by the entity.</para>
            <para>Recalculating the amounts of the reclassifications.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Financial instruments are monitored on an ongoing basis to recognize
and measure events affecting related financial statement assertions. </para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Supervisory personnel regularly review recorded financial instruments
to determine that events affecting their presentation and disclosure
are considered, such as factors indicating impairment, loans of the
financial instruments to other entities, or pledging financial instruments
as collateral.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
            <para>Inquiring of supervisory personnel about whether financial instrument
portfolios and related transactions, including impairments, are being
monitored on a timely basis.</para>
            <para>Inspecting documentation of the review of recorded financial
instruments and testing a sample of the financial instruments that
supervisory personnel reviewed.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
      </tbody>
    </tgroup>
  </table>
</root>