<root id="aag-afi_appF_fasb_asu_no__2019_04" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2019-04</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2019-04</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">In April 2019, FASB issued ASU No. 2019-04
to clarify, correct, and improve various aspects of the guidance in
ASU Nos. 2016-01, 2016-13, and 2017-12 related to financial instruments.
The discussion herein will only address those amendments related to
ASU No. 2017-12. Amendments related to ASU Nos. 2016-01 and ASU No.
2016-13 were addressed in previous sections of this appendix.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2019-04 clarifies certain aspects
of the amendments in ASU No. 2017-12 as follows:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments clarify that an entity
may measure the change in fair value of a hedged item using an assumed
term only for changes attributable to interest rate risk. They also
clarify that an entity may measure the change in the fair value of
the hedged item attributable to interest rate risk using an assumed
term when the hedged item is designated in a hedge of both interest
rate risk and foreign exchange risk. In that instance, the change
in carrying value of the hedged item attributable to foreign exchange
risk must continue to be measured based on changes in the spot exchange
rate in accordance with FASB ASC 815-25-35-18. In addition, the amendments
clarify that one or more separately designated partial-term fair value
hedging relationships of a single financial instrument can be outstanding
at the same time, and for forward-starting partial-term fair value
hedges, the issuance of the hedged item is assumed to occur on the
date in which the first hedged cash flow begins to accrue.
        <emphasis role="italic">Partial-term fair value hedges
of interest rate risk.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments clarify that an
entity may, but is not required to, begin to amortize a fair value
hedge basis adjustment before the fair value hedging relationship
is discontinued. If an entity elects to amortize the basis adjustment
during an outstanding partial-term hedge, that basis adjustment should
be fully amortized by the hedged item’s assumed maturity date in accordance
with FASB ASC 815-25-35-13B.
        <emphasis role="italic">Amortization of fair value
hedge basis adjustments.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments clarify that available-for-sale
debt securities should be disclosed at their amortized cost and that
fair value hedge basis adjustments related to foreign exchange risk
should be excluded from the disclosures required by FASB ASC 815-10-50-4EE.
        <emphasis role="italic">Disclosure of fair value hedge
basis adjustments.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendment clarifies that an entity should consider
the contractually specified interest rate being hedged when applying
the hypothetical derivative method.
        <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of the hedged
contractually specified interest rate under the hypothetical derivative
method.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments clarify that a not-for-profit entity that does not
separately report earnings may not elect the amortization approach
for amounts excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for fair
value hedging relationships. 
        <emphasis role="italic">Scope for not-for-profit entities.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments clarify that a private company that is not a financial
institution as described in FASB ASC 942-320-50-1 should document
the analysis supporting a last-of-layer hedge designation concurrently
with hedge inception. Not-for-profit entities (except for not-for-profit
entities that have issued, or are a conduit bond obligor for, securities
that are traded, listed, or quoted on an exchange or an over-the-counter
market) qualify for the same subsequent quarterly hedge effectiveness
assessment timing relief for which certain private companies qualify
in accordance with FASB ASC 815-20-25-142.
        <emphasis role="italic">Hedge accounting provisions
applicable to certain private companies and not-for-profit entities.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments clarify that the application
of the first-payments-received cash flow hedging technique to changes
in overall cash flows on a group of variable interest payments continues
to be permitted.
        <emphasis role="italic">Application of a first-payments-received
cash flow hedging technique to overall cash flows on a group of variable
interest payments.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendment to FASB ASC 815-20-65-3(e)(1) clarifies that transition
adjustments to amend the measurement methodology of the hedged item
in a fair value hedge of interest rate risk should be made as of the
date of initial application of ASU No. 2017-12. The date of initial
application differs from the date of adoption if an entity adopts
the amendments in ASU No. 2017-12 in an interim period. The amendments
also clarify the following:
        <emphasis role="italic">Transition guidance update.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>An entity may rebalance its fair value hedging relationships
of interest rate risk when it modifies the measurement methodology
used for the hedged item from total contractual coupon cash flows
to the benchmark rate component of the contractual coupon cash flows
by any combination of increasing or decreasing the designated notional
of the hedging instrument or increasing or decreasing the designated
proportion of the hedged item. However, the entity may not add new
hedged items or hedging instruments to the hedging relationship. </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>An entity may transition from a quantitative method
of hedge effectiveness assessment to a method comparing the hedging
relationship’s critical terms in accordance with paragraphs 84 and
85 of FASB ASC 815-20-25 or paragraphs 129–129A of FASB ASC 815-20-25
without dedesignating the existing hedging relationship if the guidance
in those paragraphs is met.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>A debt security reclassified from held-to-maturity
to available-for-sale in accordance with FASB ASC 815-20-65-3(e)(7)
does not call into question an entity’s assertion to hold to maturity
those debt securities that continue to be classified as held-to-maturity,
is not required to be designated in a last-of-layer hedging relationship,
and may be sold by an entity after reclassification.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>