<root id="aag-afi_the_auditors_assessment_of2" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>The Auditor’s Assessment of Control Risk</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Auditor’s Assessment of Control Risk</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi8_26" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>8.26</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">8.26</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      As discussed in paragraph .A7 of AU-C
section 402B, the significance of the controls at the service organization
to the user entity’s internal control also depends on the degree of
interaction between the service organization’s activities and those
of the user entity. The degree of interaction refers to the extent
to which a user entity is able to and elects to implement effective
controls over the processing performed by the service organization.
For example, a high degree of interaction exists between the activities
of the user entity and those at the service organization when the
user entity authorizes transactions, and the service organization
processes and accounts for those transactions. In these circumstances,
it may be practicable for the user entity to implement effective controls
over those transactions. On the other hand, when the service organization
initiates or initially records, processes, and accounts for the user
entity’s transactions, a lower degree of interaction exists between
the two organizations. In these circumstances, the user entity may
be unable to or may elect not to implement effective controls over
these transactions at the user entity and may rely on controls at
the service organization. In this arrangement, when the broker-dealer
both initiates and executes trades, the broker-dealer provides all
the information about trades that is available to the auditor. In
addition, the broker-dealer’s initiation and execution services are
largely provided electronically. Accordingly, the auditor concludes
that audit risk cannot be limited sufficiently without obtaining the
following audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of the
broker-dealer’s controls:
      <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
        <para>As a practical matter, Lane’s management should view information
about the operating effectiveness of the broker-dealer’s controls
as an important part of its risk management considerations.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Establishing independent departments that provide
the investment advisory services and the holding and servicing of
financial instruments</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Reconciling the information about the financial instruments
that is provided by each department</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi8_27" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>8.27</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">8.27</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">If the audit evidence about the operating
effectiveness of these controls supports an assessment of control
risk as low or moderate, the auditor may be able to reduce the number
of trades tested. The resulting audit efficiencies will become more
noticeable as the number of trades increases.</para>
  </section>
</root>