<root id="aag-afi1_54" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>1.54</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">1.54</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">Disparities may exist between price indicators
from different sources. Understanding how the price indicators were
derived and investigating these disparities assists management in
corroborating the evidence used in developing its valuation of financial
instruments in order to evaluate whether the valuation is reasonable.
Simply taking the average of the quotes provided without doing further
research may not be appropriate because one price in the range may
be the most representative of fair value, and this may not be the
average. To evaluate whether its valuations of financial instruments
are reasonable, management may</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>consider whether actual transactions represent forced
transactions rather than transactions between willing buyers and sellers.
This may invalidate the price as a comparison.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>analyze the expected future cash flows of the instrument.
This could be performed as an indicator of the most relevant pricing
data.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>depending on the nature of what is unobservable, extrapolate
from observed prices to unobserved ones (for example, there may be
observed prices for maturities up to 10 years but not longer, but
the 10-year price curve may be capable of being extrapolated beyond
10 years as an indicator). Care is needed to ensure that extrapolation
is not carried so far beyond the observable curve that its link to
observable prices becomes too tenuous to be reliable.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>compare prices within a portfolio of financial instruments
with each other to make sure they are consistent among similar financial
instruments.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>use more than one model to corroborate the results
from each one, considering the data and assumptions used in each.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>evaluate movements in the prices for related hedging
instruments and collateral.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>