<root id="aag-afi_introduction" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Introduction</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_title">Introduction</title>
  </chapterinfo>
  <section id="aag-afi_intro_1" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>I.1</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">I.1</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Financial instruments may be used by financial
and nonfinancial entities of all sizes for a variety of purposes.
Some entities may have large holdings and transaction volumes, but
other entities may only engage in a few financial instrument transactions.
Some entities may take positions in financial instruments to assume
and benefit from risk, but other entities may use financial instruments
to reduce certain risks by hedging or managing exposures. This Audit
Guide is relevant to all these situations.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_intro_2" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>I.2</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">I.2</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The following AU-C sections are particularly
relevant to audits of financial instruments:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>
          AU-C section 540B, , addresses the auditor’s responsibilities relating to auditing
accounting estimates, including accounting estimates related to financial
instruments measured at fair value.
          <emphasis role="italic">Auditing
Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and
Related Disclosures</emphasis>
          <footnote id="aag-afi_introduction_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
            <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of SAS Nos. 134–140 or or the amendments to other
SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently issued SASs.</para>
            <para>
              All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
              <tab/>
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">
                <emphasis role="italic">Professional
Standards</emphasis>
              </olink>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          AU-C section 315B, , and AU-C section 330B, , address identifying and assessing
risks of material misstatement and responding to those risks.
          <emphasis role="italic">Understanding
the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks of Material
Misstatement </emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed Risks and Evaluating
the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          AU-C section 500B, , explains what constitutes audit evidence and addresses the auditor’s
responsibility to design and perform audit procedures to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence to be able to draw reasonable conclusions
on which to base the auditor’s opinion.
          <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          AU-C section 501B, , addresses
certain specific aspects relating to auditing the valuation of investments
in securities and derivative instruments. 
          <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence
— Specific Considerations for Selected Items</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_intro_3" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>I.3</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">I.3</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The purpose of this Audit Guide is to
provide</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">Audit Guides provide practical assistance
to auditors and material that accounting firms can use in developing
their training programs and internal guidance.</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>
          background information about financial instruments.
(See , "Gaining an Understanding
About Financial Instruments.")
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi1">chapter 1</olink>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          discussion of audit considerations relating to financial
instruments. (See .)
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi2">chapters 2–11</olink>
        </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_intro_4" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>I.4</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">I.4</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">This Audit Guide is relevant to entities
of all sizes because all entities may be subject to risks of material
misstatement when using financial instruments.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_intro_5" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>I.5</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">I.5</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The guidance on valuation in this Audit Guide is likely to be more relevant for
financial instruments measured or disclosed at fair value, and the
guidance on areas other than valuation applies equally to financial
instruments measured at fair value or amortized cost or accounted
for under the equity method of accounting. This Audit Guide is also
applicable to both financial assets and liabilities, but it does not
address instruments such as
      <footnote id="aag-afi_introduction_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
        <para>
          In this Audit Guide, the terms  and  are used interchangeably.
          <emphasis role="italic">valuation</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">measurement</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>the simplest financial instruments (for example, cash,
trade accounts receivable, and trade accounts payable) or</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>insurance contracts.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_intro_6" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>I.6</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">I.6</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Also, this Audit Guide does not address
specific accounting issues relevant to financial instruments, such
as profit or loss on inception (often known as Day 1 profit or loss),
offsetting, or risk transfers. Although these subject matters can
relate to an entity’s accounting for financial instruments, a discussion
of the auditor’s consideration regarding how to address specific accounting
requirements is beyond the scope of this Audit Guide.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_intro_7" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>I.7</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">I.7</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">An audit in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards is conducted on the premise that management
and, when appropriate, those charged with governance have acknowledged
certain responsibilities. Such responsibilities subsume making fair
value measurements. This Audit Guide does not impose responsibilities
on management or those charged with governance nor does it override
laws and regulations that govern their responsibilities.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_intro_8" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>I.8</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">I.8</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">This Audit Guide has been written in the
context of general purpose fair presentation financial reporting frameworks
but may also be useful, as appropriate in the circumstances, in other
financial reporting frameworks, such as special purpose financial
reporting frameworks.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_intro_9" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>I.9</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">I.9</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">This Audit Guide primarily focuses on
the assertions related to account balances and presentation and disclosure
but also covers, in less detail, other assertions related to account
balances, such as completeness, accuracy, existence, and rights and
obligations.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_intro_10" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>I.10</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">I.10</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Financial instruments are susceptible
to , which
is defined in paragraph .07 of AU-C section 540B as "[t]he susceptibility
of an accounting estimate and related disclosures to an inherent lack
of precision in its measurement." Estimation uncertainty is affected
by the complexity of financial instruments, among other factors. The
nature and reliability of information available to support the measurement
of financial instruments varies widely, which affects the estimation
uncertainty associated with their measurement. This Audit Guide uses
the term  to refer to the estimation uncertainty associated with fair value
measurements.
      <emphasis role="italic">estimation uncertainty</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">measurement uncertainty</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
</root>