<root id="aag-afi8_scenario_a" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Scenario A — Directed Investing Arrangement With One
Service Organization: a Broker-Dealer</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Scenario A — Directed Investing Arrangement
With One Service Organization: a Broker-Dealer</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi8_10" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>8.10</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">8.10</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In this scenario, Lane initiates trades,
and the broker-dealer executes the trades and holds and services the
financial instruments purchased.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_the_understanding_of_processes" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>The Understanding of Processes and Controls the Auditor
Needs to Plan the Audit</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Understanding of Processes and Controls
the Auditor Needs to Plan the Audit</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_11" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.11</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.11</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In obtaining an understanding of the entity
and its environment, including its internal control , the auditor
determines that</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Lane initiates trades and directs the broker-dealer
to execute them.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Lane maintains records of the trades it directs the
broker-dealer to execute.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the broker-dealer sends a confirmation of each trade
to Lane, which Lane usually receives within three business days.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Lane compares the information in the trade confirmation
with its record of the trade that it directed the broker-dealer to
execute and investigates significant differences.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Lane records the trade in the applicable general ledger
accounts.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>at the end of the year, Lane adjusts the general ledger
accounts for trades it has initiated for which confirmations have
not been received. Information for that adjustment is obtained from
Lane’s record of trades it directed the broker-dealer to execute and
the confirmations of those trades it received subsequent to year-end.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>monthly, the broker-dealer sends Lane a statement
that includes trades, servicing transactions, a description of the
financial instruments held, and the fair value of each of those financial
instruments. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>monthly, Lane compares the information about trades
and the components of its financial instrument portfolio shown in
its accounting records with the broker-dealer’s monthly statement
and investigates significant differences.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>monthly, Lane records servicing transactions and changes
in unrealized holding gains and losses based on information in the
broker-dealer’s monthly statement. Lane compares the broker-dealer
information with its expectations based on published information and
investigates significant differences.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi8_12" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.12</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.12</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Paragraph .05 of AU-C section 402B, , does not apply to services that are limited
to processing an entity’s transactions that are specifically authorized
by the entity, such as the processing of checking account transactions
by a bank or the processing of financial instrument transactions by
a broker (that is, when the user entity retains responsibility for
authorizing the transactions and maintaining the related accountability). Because Lane retains responsibility for authorizing the
transactions and maintaining the related accountability, AU-C section
402B is not applicable in .
        <emphasis role="italic">Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity Using a Service
Organization</emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
          <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently-issued
SASs.</para>
        </footnote>
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_a">scenario
A</olink>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_the_auditors_assessment_of" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>The Auditor’s Assessment of Control Risk</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Auditor’s Assessment of Control Risk</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_13" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.13</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.13</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor concludes that audit risk
can be reduced to an acceptable level without testing Lane’s controls
over financial instruments and financial instrument transactions.
In addition, the auditor concludes that the number of financial instruments
and financial instrument transactions is small enough that gathering
audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of Lane’s controls
sufficient to support an assessment of control risk as low or moderate
is not likely to significantly improve audit efficiency.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi8_14" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.14</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.14</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">However, if the number of transactions
increases in future years, the auditor will reconsider that conclusion.
For example, the auditor may be able to reduce the number of trades
tested by gathering audit evidence about the operating effectiveness
of Lane’s control that involves comparing the information in the trade
confirmation with its record of the trade it directed the broker-dealer
to execute and investigating significant differences. Audit evidence
might be gathered by inspecting the documentation of the comparisons
of trades, noting the timeliness of the comparison, and inspecting
the documentation of the analysis of results and investigation of
significant differences.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_the_auditors_design_of" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>The Auditor’s Design of Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Auditor’s Design of Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_15" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.15</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.15</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor identifies the objectives
for the audit of assertions about financial instruments and financial
instrument transactions and designs related procedures:</para>
      <table frame="all" id="aag-afi8_table1" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.97in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="2.99in"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <emphasis role="bold">Audit Objective</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <emphasis role="bold">Procedure</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The recorded financial instruments exist, and Lane has the rights
and obligations associated with ownership of the recorded financial
instruments.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Confirm with the broker-dealer the name of the investee,
the number of shares, whether the shares are pledged, and that Lane
is the owner. </para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The recorded financial instrument transactions occurred.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Inspect supporting documentation, such as trade confirmations
or entries in the broker-dealer’s monthly statements.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>All the financial instruments that Lane owns and all its financial
instrument transactions have been recorded. </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Test management’s reconciliation of the fair value
of the financial instruments at the beginning and end of the year
to the information provided by the broker-dealer.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Perform analytical procedures on dividends and realized
and unrealized gains and losses.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>
                  The financial instruments are recorded at their fair value,
determined by following the requirements of FASB ASC 320, .
                  <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Debt and Equity Securities</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Obtain the per-share price quoted by the exchange
at the balance sheet date and compare the quoted price with the price
that Lane used.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Test the extension of the number of shares at the
quoted price. </para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Realized and unrealized holding gains and losses are properly
reported as earnings or other comprehensive income.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Evaluate management’s considerations in ensuring that
the requirements of FASB ASC 320 were satisfied.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Review journal entries for propriety.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The financial instruments are properly classified.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Gather audit evidence about the classification of
the financial instruments as available for sale.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Disclosures about financial instruments and financial instrument
transactions are adequate.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Read the financial statements and compare the disclosures
about financial instruments and financial instrument transactions
with the requirements of FASB ASC 320-10-50.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>