<root id="aag-afi3_monitoring_of_controls" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Monitoring of Controls</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Monitoring of Controls</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi3_38" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.38</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.38</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The entity’s ongoing monitoring activities
are designed to detect and correct any deficiencies in the effectiveness
of controls over transactions for financial instruments and their
valuation. It is important that there is adequate supervision and
review of financial instrument activity within the entity, including</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      all controls being subject to review (for example, the monitoring
of operational statistics, such as the number of reconciling items
or the difference between internal pricing and external pricing sources).
      <emphasis role="italic">
        a.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      the need for robust IT controls and monitoring and validating their
application.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        b.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      the need to ensure that information resulting from different processes
and systems is adequately reconciled. For example, there is little
benefit in a valuation process if its output is not reconciled properly
to the general ledger.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        c.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_39" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.39</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.39</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In larger entities, sophisticated computer
information systems generally keep track of financial instrument activities
and are designed to ensure that settlements occur when due. More complex
computer systems may generate automatic postings to clearing accounts
to monitor cash movements, and controls over processing are put in
place with the objective of ensuring that financial instrument activities
are correctly reflected in the entity’s records. Computer systems
may be designed to produce exception reports to alert management to
situations when financial instruments have not been used within authorized
limits or when transactions undertaken were not within the limits
established for the chosen counterparties. However, even a sophisticated
computer system may not ensure the completeness of the recording of
financial instrument transactions. Accordingly, management frequently
puts additional procedures in place to increase the likelihood that
all transactions will be recorded.</para>
  </section>
</root>