<root id="aag-afi3_the_entitys_information_system" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>The Entity’s Information System</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Entity’s Information System</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi3_24" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.24</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.24</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The key objective of an entity’s information
system is that it is capable of capturing and recording all the transactions
accurately, settling them, valuing them, and producing information
to enable the financial instruments to be risk managed and for controls
to be monitored. Difficulties can arise in entities that engage in
a high volume of financial instruments, in particular if a multiplicity
of systems are poorly integrated and have manual interfaces without
adequate controls. </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_25" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.25</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.25</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Certain financial instruments may require
a large number of accounting entries. As the sophistication or level
of the financial instrument activities increases, it is necessary
for the sophistication of the information system to also increase.
Specific issues that can arise with respect to financial instruments
include</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      information systems, particularly for smaller entities, not having
the capability or being appropriately configured to process financial
instrument transactions, especially when the entity does not have
any prior experience in dealing with financial instruments. This may
result in an increased number of manual transactions that may further
increase the risk of error.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        a.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      the potential diversity of systems required to process more complex
transactions and the need for regular reconciliations between them,
in particular when the systems are not interfaced or may be subject
to manual intervention.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        b.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      the potential that more complex transactions, if they are only traded
by a small number of individuals, may be valued or risk managed on
spreadsheets rather than main processing systems and for the physical
and logical password security around those spreadsheets to be more
easily compromised.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        c.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      a lack of review of systems exception logs, external confirmations,
and broker quotes, when available, to validate the entries generated
by the systems.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        d.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      difficulties in controlling and evaluating the key inputs to systems
for valuation of financial instruments, particularly when those systems
are maintained by the group of traders known as the sales function
or a third-party service provider, or the transactions in question
are nonroutine or thinly traded.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        e.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      failure to evaluate the design and calibration of complex models
used to process these transactions initially and on a periodic basis.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        f.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      the potential that management has not set up a library of models
with controls around access, change, and maintenance of individual
models in order to maintain a strong audit trail of the accredited
versions of models and in order to prevent unauthorized access or
amendments to those models.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        g.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      the disproportionate investment that may be required in risk management
and control systems when an entity only undertakes a limited number
of financial instrument transactions and the potential for misunderstanding
of the output by management if the risk management and control systems
are not used for these types of transactions.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        h.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      the potential requirement for third-party systems providers (for
example, from a service organization) to record, process, account
for, or risk manage appropriately financial instrument transactions
and the need to reconcile appropriately and challenge the output from
those providers.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        i.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      additional security and control considerations relevant to the use
of an electronic network when an entity uses electronic commerce for
financial instrument transactions.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        j.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_26" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.26</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.26</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Information systems relevant to financial
reporting serve as an important source of information for the quantitative
disclosures in the financial statements. However, entities may also
develop and maintain nonfinancial systems used for internal reporting
and to generate information included in qualitative disclosures (for
example, regarding risks and uncertainties or sensitivity analyses).</para>
  </section>
</root>