<root id="aag-afi1_an_example_of_a" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>An Example of a Common Financial Instrument</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">An Example of a Common Financial Instrument</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi1_42" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.42</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.42</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The following describes how models may
be applied to value a common financial instrument, known as an asset-backed
security. Because asset-backed securities are often valued based
on level 2 or level 3 inputs, they are frequently valued using models
and involve understanding the
      <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
        <para>
          An  is
a financial instrument that is backed by a pool of underlying assets
(known as the collateral, such as credit card receivables or vehicle
loans) and that derives value and income from those underlying assets.
          <emphasis role="italic">asset-backed security</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>type of security, considering the underlying collateral
and the terms of the security. The underlying collateral is used to
estimate the timing and amounts of cash flows, such as mortgage or
credit card interest and principal payments.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>terms of the security. This includes evaluating contractual
cash flow rights, such as the order of repayment, and any default
events. The order of repayment, often known as seniority, refers to
terms that require that some classes of security holders (senior debt)
are repaid before others (subordinated debt). The rights of each class
of security holder to the cash flows, frequently referred to as the
cash flow "waterfall," together with assumptions of the timing and
amount of cash flows, are used to derive a set of estimated cash flows
for each class of security holder. The expected cash flows are then
discounted to derive an estimated fair value.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_43" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.43</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.43</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The cash flows of an asset-backed security
may be affected by prepayments of the underlying collateral and potential
default risk and resulting estimated loss reserves. Prepayment assumptions,
if applicable, are generally based on evaluating market interest rates
for similar collateral to the rates on the collateral underlying the
security. For example, if market interest rates for mortgages have
declined, then the underlying mortgages in a security may experience
higher prepayment rates than originally expected. Estimating potential
default and loss reserve involves close evaluation of the underlying
collateral and borrowers to estimate default rates. For example, when
the underlying collateral comprises residential mortgages, loss reserves
may be affected by estimates of residential housing prices over the
term of the security.</para>
  </section>
</root>