<root id="aag-afi7_accounting_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Accounting Considerations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">
      Accounting Considerations
      <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
        <para>For simplicity, this case study ignores income tax consequences.</para>
      </footnote>
      <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
        <para>
          <emphasis role="shade">
            In April 2019, FASB issued ASU No. 2019-04, , and  to clarify
and improve areas of guidance related to recently-issued ASU Nos.
2016-13, , 2017-12, , and 2016-01, . The ASU identifies the following
five topic categories:
            <emphasis role="italic">Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Topic 825, Financial Instruments</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments — Credit Losses
(Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging (Topic
815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments — Overall
(Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities</emphasis>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para>
          Each topic category contains a variety of issues and the effective
dates for each issue depend on the topic category. “Pending Content”
from Topic 1, Issue 1B of the ASU is addressed in  of this guide. The
amendments in Issue 1B are effective as follows: for entities that
have not yet adopted the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13, the effective
dates and transition requirements are the same as those for that ASU;
for entities that have adopted the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13,
the effective dates are for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early
adoption is permitted. See the ASU, available at , for application details.
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi7_05">paragraph 7.05</olink>
          <ulink url="fasb.org">fasb.org</ulink>
        </para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              <emphasis role="shade">Topic 1: Codification Improvements
Resulting from the June 11, 2018 and November 1, 2018 Credit Losses
Transition Resource Group (TRG) Meetings</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              <emphasis role="shade">Topic 2: Codification Improvements
to Update 2016-13</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              <emphasis role="shade">Topic 3: Codification Improvements
to Update 2017-12 and Other Hedging Items</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              <emphasis role="shade">Topic 4: Codification Improvements
to Update 2016-01</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              <emphasis role="shade">Topic 5: Codification Improvements
Resulting from the November 1, 2018 Credit Losses TRG Meeting</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </footnote>
    </title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi7_03" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.03</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.03</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">BEV manufactures parts for high-performance
bicycles. Several years ago, BEV purchased a 6%, AA-rated bond of
a publicly traded copper mining company at its $800,000 face amount.
The intent of BEV’s management was to invest in a relatively stable
security that would be available to finance BEV’s plant expansion
that they anticipated would take place within a short period of time.
Accordingly, the bond was classified as available for sale.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_04" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.04</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.04</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      For the last 2 years, competition for
BEV’s products has increased dramatically, and as a result, BEV has
failed to continue to grow. At the end of the current year, management
dropped its plans to expand the plant, decided to hold the bond to
maturity, and changed the classification of the bond to held to maturity.
Several months before the change in classification, the bond’s fair
value began to decline. By the time the classification was changed,
the bond’s fair value had declined by $150,000, from $800,000 to $650,000. 
      <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
        <para>For simplicity, this case study assumes that at the end of the
prior year, the bond’s fair value equaled its $800,000 face amount.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_05" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.05</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.05</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      According to FASB  (ASC) 320, , BEV should
record the unrealized loss through the date of change in classification
through a $150,000 charge to other comprehensive income and a $150,000
credit directly to the bond. The $650,000 fair value at the date the
classification is changed becomes the bond’s new cost basis. With
the exception of a decline in fair value that is other than temporary,
changes in the fair value of the bond after the change in classification
should only be recognized when they are realized. However, any decline
in value that is other than temporary should be recognized in accordance
with the requirements of paragraphs 34A–34E of FASB ASC 320-10-35.
The measurement of the decline in value (impairment) should not include
partial recoveries after the balance sheet date. The fair value of
the bond would then become the new cost basis and should not be adjusted
for subsequent recoveries in fair value. However, the amortized cost
basis should be adjusted for accretion and amortization as discussed
in FASB ASC 320-10-35-35.
      <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Debt Securities</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      <emphasis role="shade">
        Based on “Pending
Content” (added by Accounting Standards Update No. 2019-04, ) in paragraph 10B of  FASB ASC 320-10-35,
BEV should reclassify and transfer the debt security to the held-to-maturity
category at its amortized cost basis of $650,000 (which is reduced
by any previous write-offs but excludes any allowance for credit losses)
plus or minus the amount of remaining unrealized holding loss reported
in accumulated other comprehensive income. BEV should evaluate the
debt security for an allowance for credit losses by following the
guidance in FASB ASC 326-20, . BEV should
continue to report the unrealized holding loss at the date of the
transfer in a separate component of shareholders’ equity, such as
accumulated other comprehensive income; the loss should be amortized
over the remaining life of the security as an adjustment of yield
in a manner consistent with the amortization of any premium or discount.
        <emphasis role="italic">Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825,
Financial Instruments</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses-Measured at Amortized Cost</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_06" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.06</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.06</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      When a bond is reclassified as held to
maturity, the unrealized appreciation or depreciation in its value
at the date of reclassification continues to be reported as a separate
component of equity (such as accumulated other comprehensive income).
However, it is treated as a premium or discount and amortized over
future years as a yield adjustment. The bond’s amortized cost basis,
which is its carrying amount, is its $800,000 face amount less the
unamortized portion of the $150,000 unrealized loss at the date of
reclassification. Therefore, when the bond matures, its carrying amount
will be its face amount. In financial statements after the reclassification,
BEV’s financial statements should disclose, among other things, the
bond’s amortized cost basis, its fair value, and the unrealized appreciation
or depreciation in its value. The unrealized appreciation or depreciation
disclosed in the financial statements should be the difference between
the bond’s fair value and its new amortized cost basis (that is, the
fair value at the date of reclassification adjusted for unamortized
premium or discount).
      <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
        <para>It may also be viewed as the $650,000 fair value at the date
of reclassification plus cumulative amortization of the $150,000 unrealized
loss at the date of reclassification.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_07" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.07</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.07</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">BEV could use the following entries to
record the change in classification of the bond from available for
sale to held to maturity:</para>
    <table frame="none" id="aag-afi7_table1" role="ps_table_center">
      <title/>
      <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
        <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="3.49in"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="1.30in"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.25in"/>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>Other comprehensive income</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>$150,000</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>
                Investment in available-for-sale bond
                <tab/>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>$150,000</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>To recognize the decline in the bond’s fair value through the
date its classification was changed</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>Investment in held-to-maturity bond</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>$650,000</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>
                Investment in available-for-sale bond
                <tab/>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>$650,000</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>To record the change in the bond’s classification</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_08" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.08</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.08</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The $150,000 unrealized holding loss related
to the bond at the time of the reclassification would continue to
be reported in accumulated other comprehensive income. Each year,
BEV will receive $48,000 in cash from the issuer of the bond, which
is 6% of the bond’s $800,000 face amount. An effective interest rate
of 11.08393% would discount 5 annual payments of $48,000 and an $800,000
principal payment at the end of the fifth year to the bond’s $650,000
carrying amount when the classification is changed. Accordingly, the
difference between the result of applying this rate to the bond’s
carrying amount and the $48,000 stated interest should be recorded
as amortization of the discount. As the following table illustrates,
the substance of the accounting is that each year, cash increases
$48,000; the bond’s carrying amount increases by the discount amortization;
and equity increases by the result of applying 11.08393% to the carrying
amount of the bond at the beginning of the year:</para>
    <table frame="none" id="aag-afi7_table2" role="ps_table_center">
      <title/>
      <tgroup align="left" cols="5" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
        <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="0.62in"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.00in"/>
        <colspec colname="c5" colwidth="1.00in"/>
        <colspec colname="c7" colwidth="1.00in"/>
        <colspec colname="c9" colwidth="1.00in"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry align="center" colsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>
                <emphasis role="italic">Year</emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="center" colsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>
                <emphasis role="italic">Carrying Amount of the Bond</emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="center" colsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>
                <emphasis role="italic">Cash Received</emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="center" colsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>
                <emphasis role="italic">Discount Amortization</emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="center" colsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>
                <emphasis role="italic">Total Increase in Equity</emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>1</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>$650,000</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>$48,000</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>$24,046</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>$72,046</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>2</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para> 674,046</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para> 48,000</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para> 26,711</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para> 74,711</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>3</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para> 700,757</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para> 48,000</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para> 29,671</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para> 77,671</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>4</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para> 730,428</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para> 48,000</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para> 32,960</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para> 80,960</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>5</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para> 763,388</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>48,000</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para> 36,612</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
              <para> 84,612</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>$800,000</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>$240,000</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>$150,000</para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>$390,000</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" nameend="c9" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
              <para>The $390,000 cumulative increase in equity over the 5 remaining
years the bond is outstanding equals the $240,000 interest received
plus the amortization of the $150,000 unrealized loss at the date
of reclassification.</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_09" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.09</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.09</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The increase in equity should be split
between interest income and other comprehensive income. Because BEV
will not realize the $150,000 unrealized loss charged to other comprehensive
income, the effective rate of return on the bond reported in earnings
is equal to the bond’s stated interest rate. Therefore, interest income
equals interest received. In substance, the excess of the increase
in equity over the interest income equals the amortization of the
discount and is reported as other comprehensive income. The 3 entries
for the first year would be as follows:</para>
    <table frame="none" id="aag-afi7_table3" role="ps_table_center">
      <title/>
      <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
        <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="3.49in"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="1.00in"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="0.98in"/>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>Cash</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>$48,000</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>
                Interest income
                <tab/>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>$48,000</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>To record interest received</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>Discount on investment in held-to-maturity bond</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>$24,046</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>
                Interest income
                <tab/>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>$24,046</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>To record amortization of the discount on the held-to-maturity
bond</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>Interest income</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>$24,046</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>
                Other comprehensive income
                <tab/>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>$24,046</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
              <para>To record amortization of the unrealized loss included in accumulated
other comprehensive income</para>
            </entry>
            <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            <entry rowsep="0"/>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_10" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.10</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.10</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraphs 17–35 of FASB ASC 320-10-35
address the determination regarding when an investment is considered
impaired, whether that impairment is other than temporary, and the
measurement of an impairment loss. FASB ASC 320-10-35 also includes
accounting considerations subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary
impairment and requires certain disclosures about unrealized losses
that have not been recognized as other-than-temporary impairments.</para>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      “Pending Content” in paragraphs 17–35
of FASB ASC 320-10-35 is superseded upon adoption of by ASU No. 2016-13, .
      <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments — Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement
of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_11" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.11</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.11</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">At the end of the fifth year, when the
principal is collected, the</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>discount will have been amortized, and the carrying
amount of the bond will be $800,000, which is the principal due on
the bond.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>$150,000 unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive
income will have been eliminated through credits to other comprehensive
income. </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>