<root id="aag-afi3_use_of_service_organizations" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Use of Service Organizations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Use of Service Organizations</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi3_14" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.14</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.14</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Entities may use service organizations
(for example, asset managers) to initiate the purchase or sale of
financial instruments, maintain records of transactions for the entity,
or value financial instruments. Some entities may be dependent on
these service organizations to provide the basis of reporting for
the financial instruments held. However, if management does not have
an understanding about the controls in place at a service organization,
the auditor may not be able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence to rely on controls at that service organization. AU-C section
402B, , establishes requirements
for the auditor to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence when
an entity uses the services of one or more service organizations.  provide further
guidance about the use of a service organization.
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Considerations Relating to an
Entity Using a Service Organization</emphasis>
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi3_40">Paragraphs 3.40–.54</olink>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_15" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.15</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.15</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The use of service organizations may strengthen
or weaken the control environment for financial instruments. For example,
a service organization’s personnel may have more experience with financial
instruments than the entity’s management or more robust internal control
over financial reporting. The use of the service organization also
may allow for greater segregation of duties. On the other hand, the
service organization may have a poor control environment. </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_16" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.16</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.16</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      , "Illustrative Questions About the Entity’s Controls Over
Its Financial Instrument Activities," of this guide provides an illustration
of questions that may be helpful to the auditor in obtaining an understanding
of an entity’s controls over its financial instrument activities.
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appB">Appendix
B</olink>
    </para>
  </section>
</root>