<root id="aag-afi_the_understanding_of_processes1" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>The Understanding of Processes and Controls the Auditor
Needs to Assess the Risk of Material Misstatement</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Understanding of Processes and Controls
the Auditor Needs to Assess the Risk of Material Misstatement</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi8_17" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>8.17</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">8.17</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In order to assess the risks of material
misstatements, the auditor would obtain the following understanding
of processes and controls:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>The investment adviser initiates trades within parameters
set by Lane, and the investment adviser directs the broker-dealer
to execute them.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The broker-dealer sends a confirmation of each trade
to the investment adviser and Lane, which Lane usually receives within
three business days.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          Lane records the trade in the applicable general ledger
accounts when it receives the trade confirmation.
          <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
            <para>In this scenario, recording trades when Lane Components, Inc.
(Lane) receives the broker-dealer’s monthly statements may also be
an effective control for Lane.</para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Monthly, the broker-dealer sends the investment adviser
and Lane a statement that includes trades, servicing transactions,
a description of the financial instruments held, and the fair value
of each of those financial instruments.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Quarterly, the investment adviser provides Lane with
a summary of trades it has initiated and the performance of the financial
instruments’ portfolio. Monthly, Lane compares the information about
trades and the components of its financial instruments’ portfolio
shown in its accounting records (which are recorded based on confirmations
and statements from the broker-dealer) with the information in the
investment adviser’s monthly statement and identifies and investigates
any significant differences.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>At the end of the year, Lane records any trades initiated
by the investment adviser for which confirmations have not been received.
Information for recording that information is obtained from Lane’s
reconciliation of the investment adviser’s information with the broker-dealer’s
information.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Monthly, Lane records servicing transactions and changes
in unrealized holding gains and losses based on information in the
broker-dealer’s monthly statement. Lane compares the broker-dealer
information with its expectations based on published information and
investigates significant differences.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The broker-dealer’s execution of trades and holding
of financial instruments are not part of Lane’s information system.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi8_18" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>8.18</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">8.18</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">With respect to whether obtaining an understanding
of the controls of the investment adviser and broker-dealer is necessary
to plan the audit, the auditor concludes there is a high degree of
interaction between Lane’s activities and those of the broker-dealer
and investment adviser. Lane is able to and elects to implement effective
controls over the activities of the broker-dealer and the investment
adviser, including the investment adviser’s controls over initiation
of trades and the broker-dealer’s controls over servicing financial
instruments. Lane performs the following procedures:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Reconciles the investment adviser’s information with
the broker-dealer’s information and investigates significant differences</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Compares broker-dealer information about servicing
and fair values with its expectations based on published information
and investigates significant differences</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>