<root id="aag-afi4_other_procedures" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Other Procedures</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Other Procedures</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi4_33" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.33</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.33</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Other procedures that may provide audit
evidence to support the completeness, accuracy, and existence assertions
include</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>external confirmation of bank accounts, trades, and
custodian statements. This can be done by direct confirmation with
the counterparty (including the use of bank confirmations) in which
a reply is sent to the auditor directly. Alternatively, this information
may be obtained from the counterparty’s systems through a data feed.
When this is done, controls to prevent tampering with the computer
systems through which the information is transmitted may be considered
by the auditor in evaluating the reliability of the evidence from
the confirmation. If confirmations are not received, the auditor may
be able to obtain evidence by reviewing contracts and testing relevant
controls. However, external confirmations often do not provide adequate
audit evidence with respect to the valuation assertion, though they
may assist in identifying any side agreements. </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>reviewing reconciliations of statements or data feeds
from custodians with the entity’s own records. This may necessitate
evaluating IT controls around and within automated reconciliation
processes and evaluating whether reconciling items are properly understood
and resolved.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>reviewing journal entries and the controls over the
recording of such entries. This may assist in, for example,</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
      <listitem>
        <para>determining if entries have been made by employees
other than those authorized to do so.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>identifying unusual or inappropriate end-of-period
journal entries that may be relevant to fraud risk.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>reading individual contracts and reviewing supporting
documentation of the entity’s financial instrument transactions, including
accounting records, thereby verifying existence and rights and obligations.
For example, an auditor may read individual contracts associated with
financial instruments and review supporting documentation, including
the accounting entries made when the contract was initially recorded,
and may also subsequently review accounting entries made for valuation
purposes. Doing so allows the auditor to evaluate whether the complexities
inherent in a transaction have been fully identified and reflected
in the accounts. Legal arrangements and their associated risks need
to be considered by those with suitable expertise to ensure that rights
exist.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>performing tests of controls to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of relevant
controls.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>reviewing the entity’s complaints’ management systems.
Unrecorded transactions may result in the entity’s failure to make
a cash payment to a counterparty and may be detected by reviewing
complaints received. </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>reviewing master netting arrangements to identify
unrecorded instruments.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_34" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.34</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.34</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">These procedures are particularly important
for some financial instruments, such as derivatives or guarantees,
because they may not have a large initial investment, meaning it may
be hard to identify their existence. For example, embedded derivatives
are often contained in contracts for nonfinancial instruments that
may not be included in confirmation procedures.</para>
  </section>
</root>