<root id="aag-afi_appF_overview1" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Overview</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Overview</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    On January 5, 2016, FASB issued Accounting
Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-01, , to enhance
the reporting model for financial instruments and to provide users
of financial statements with more decision-useful information. Amendments
in the ASU are intended to improve certain aspects of recognition,
measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. 
    <emphasis role="italic">Financial
Instruments — Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement
of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">The new guidance will accomplish the following:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Require equity investments (except those accounted
for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in
consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value with changes
in fair value recognized in net income.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Replace the impairment model for equity investments
without readily determinable fair values with a qualitative impairment
assessment.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Eliminate the requirement to disclose the fair values
of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortized
cost for nonpublic business entities.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Eliminate the requirement for public business entities
to disclose the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate
fair value currently required to be disclosed for financial assets
and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost on the balance
sheet.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Require public business entities to use the exit price
notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for
disclosure purposes.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Require an entity to present separately in other comprehensive
income (OCI) the portion of the total change in the fair value of
a liability resulting from a change in instrument-specific credit
risk when the entity has elected to measure the liability at fair
value in accordance with the fair value option for financial instruments. </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Require separate presentation of financial assets
and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial
asset (that is, securities or loans and receivables) on the balance
sheet or in accompanying notes to the financial statements.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Clarify that an entity should evaluate the need for
a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset related to available-for-sale
debt securities in combination with an entity’s other deferred tax
assets.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Eliminate an entity’s ability to estimate the disclosed
fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis
of entry prices.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>