<root id="aag-afi_appD" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Appendix D — Information About the Black-Scholes Valuation
Model (Ref: par. 1.39)</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Appendix D</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">
      Information About the Black-Scholes
Valuation Model (Ref: )
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi1_39">par. 1.39</olink>
    </subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    <emphasis role="italic">This appendix is
nonauthoritative and is included for informational purposes only.</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    This appendix provides an overview of how
to evaluate fair values calculated by an entity using the Black-Scholes
option pricing model. Although this model ordinarily may involve complex
calculations, the following illustrations focus only on the elements
of the calculations that are typically most relevant to auditors.
Refer to guidance in AU-C section 500B, , when evaluating fair values derived by management’s specialist.
    <emphasis role="italic">Audit
Evidence</emphasis>
    <footnote id="aag-afi_appD_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
      <para>
        All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
        <emphasis role="italic">
          <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </footnote>
    <footnote id="aag-afi_appD_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
      <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
    </footnote>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">The following table discusses evaluating
fair values derived using the Black-Scholes option pricing model:</para>
  <table frame="all" id="aag-afi_appD_table1" role="ps_table_center">
    <title/>
    <tgroup align="left" cols="6" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
      <colspec colname="c1" colsep="0" colwidth="1.30in"/>
      <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="0.93in"/>
      <colspec colname="c4" colwidth="0.82in"/>
      <colspec colname="c5" colsep="0" colwidth="0.19in" rowsep="0"/>
      <colspec colname="c6" colwidth="0.82in"/>
      <colspec colname="c7" colwidth="0.83in"/>
      <tbody>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>What is it?</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c7" namest="c3" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>
              The  is a mathematical model for estimating the price of options. To
estimate fair value, the model uses five variables:
              <emphasis role="italic">Black-Scholes option pricing model</emphasis>
            </para>
            <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
              Time to expiration of the option
              <emphasis role="italic">
                a.
                <tab/>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
            <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
              Exercise or strike price of the option
              <emphasis role="italic">
                b.
                <tab/>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
            <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
              Risk-free interest rate
              <emphasis role="italic">
                c.
                <tab/>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
            <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
              Price of the underlying stock
              <emphasis role="italic">
                d.
                <tab/>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
            <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
              Volatility of the price of the underlying stock
              <emphasis role="italic">
                e.
                <tab/>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Who uses it?</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c7" namest="c3" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>The Black-Scholes model is not the only model for estimating
the price of options (some others are the Monte-Carlo simulation and
binomial trees); however, Black-Scholes is the best known and most
widely used. Computer versions of this model are widely available,
and virtually any broker who trades options has access to them.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>What are the key assumptions?</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c7" namest="c3" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Strictly speaking, the Black-Scholes model applies only to European-style
options (in which the buyer of the option can exercise the option
only on the expiration date) that pay no dividends. Adjustments should
be made to the model to address other situations.</para>
            <para>Of the five variables used in the model, the first three (time
to expiration, strike price, and risk-free interest rate) are easy
to corroborate. The fourth variable — the price of the underlying
stock — also may be easy to verify if the stock is publicly traded.
If the stock is not publicly traded, then its price must be estimated.</para>
            <para>Typically, the fifth factor — volatility of the underlying stock
— is the most subjective and difficult to estimate of the five variables.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>More about volatility</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c7" namest="c3" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Price volatility can be viewed in the context of the bell-shaped
curve. In a bell-shaped curve, the mean and median of a population
are at the apex of the curve. The standard deviation describes the
shape of the curve. Approximately 68% of the values in a normal distribution
are within ± 1 standard deviation of the mean, 95% of the values are
within ± 2 standard deviations, and 99.7% of the values are included
within 3 standard deviations. The standard deviation describes 2 factors:
the dispersion of the data and the probability that any specified
outcome will fall within the standard deviation selected. The greater
the standard deviation, the flatter the bell-shaped curve and the
more dispersed the data.</para>
            <para>
               is nothing more
than the standard deviation of the price of a particular stock. Usually,
it is expressed as a percentage of the stock value. For example, assume
that the stock of XYZ is trading at $40, and its volatility is 20%.
Over the course of 1 year, its trading range would be projected to
be within 20% of its current price approximately 68% of the time.
That is, approximately 68% of the time, the stock would trade between
$32 and $48. Going out to 2 standard deviations, 95% of the time,
the stock would trade between $24 and $56.
              <emphasis role="italic">Volatility</emphasis>
            </para>
            <para>Annual volatility can be adjusted to a daily rate. The Black-Scholes
model does this by dividing the annual volatility by the square root
of the number of trading periods. In any year, there are approximately
256 trading days (this excludes weekends and holidays), and the square
root of 256 is 16. To convert an annual volatility rate to a daily
rate, divide it by 16. Thus, if the annual volatility was 20%, the
daily volatility would equal 20% ÷ 16, or 1.25%. In the example of
XYZ Company stock trading at $40 per share, standard deviation on
the first day would be $0.50 ($40 × 1.25%). At the end of the first
day of trading, there is approximately a 68% chance that the value
of the stock will be between $39.50 and $40.50 per share.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry colsep="1" rowsep="0">
            <para>How might the auditor audit a Black-Scholes-derived value?</para>
          </entry>
          <entry nameend="c7" namest="c3" rowsep="0">
            <para>Understand how the five variables affect the estimate of the
value of the stock option. The following table summarizes the effects.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
      </tbody>
    </tgroup>
  </table>
  <table frame="none" id="aag-afi_appD_table2" role="ps_table_center">
    <title/>
    <tgroup align="left" cols="6" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
      <colspec colname="c1" colsep="0" colwidth="1.30in"/>
      <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="0.93in"/>
      <colspec colname="c4" colwidth="0.82in"/>
      <colspec colname="c5" colsep="0" colwidth="0.19in" rowsep="0"/>
      <colspec colname="c6" colwidth="0.82in"/>
      <colspec colname="c7" colwidth="0.83in"/>
      <tbody>
        <row>
          <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
          <entry align="center" colsep="0" nameend="c4" namest="c3" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">Call</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
          <entry align="center" colsep="0" nameend="c7" namest="c6" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">Put</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">Variable</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">If the variable</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">The option price</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry/>
          <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">If the variable</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="italic">The option price</emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row rowsep="0">
          <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
            <para>Time to expiration</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry colsep="0">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry/>
          <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry rowsep="0">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
            <para>Exercise price</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <para>Decreases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry/>
          <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry rowsep="0">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
            <para>Risk-free interest rate</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry/>
          <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry rowsep="0">
            <para>Decreases</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
            <para>Stock price</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry/>
          <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry rowsep="0">
            <para>Decreases</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
            <para>Volatility</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry/>
          <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
          <entry rowsep="0">
            <para>Increases</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry nameend="c7" namest="c1" rowsep="0">
            <para>Understand what, if any, adjustments to the Black-Scholes model
were made. Identify the key assumptions underlying those adjustments.</para>
            <para>Test the assumptions used in the model for which objective evidence
exists.</para>
            <para>If the stock is not publicly traded, the price of the stock
needs to be estimated. Test the process and method used to make this
estimate. Determine whether the estimate is adequately supported.
If possible, compare the estimated stock price with stock prices of
comparable companies in the same industry.</para>
            <para>
              Assess the assumed volatility for reasonableness. If the stock
is publicly traded, volatility ordinarily correlates to the historical
price movement of the stock: approximately 68% of the values of the
stock should fall within 1 standard deviation of the median. The auditor
may consider recalculating the volatility assumptions by referring
to historical stock price movements. If the stock is not traded publicly,
compare the assumed volatility with other entities in the same industry.
FASB  718, , requires companies to disclose the volatility used to value employee
stock options, and these disclosures could be a source of information. 
              <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Compensation — Stock Compensation</emphasis>
            </para>
            <para>Determine how sensitive the estimate of fair value is to changes
in volatility. Ask the entity to run the model several times using
different volatility rates while all other variables are held constant.
This will indicate how sensitive the estimate is to assumptions about
volatility. Evaluate the results of this test in light of materiality.
For example, if large changes in the volatility rate do not produce
a material effect on the financial statements, the auditor may be
able to reduce audit risk to an acceptable level with a minimum of
other test work.</para>
            <para>As an alternative to these procedures, the auditor may recalculate
the option price using a different model and assumptions the auditor
deems appropriate.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
      </tbody>
    </tgroup>
  </table>
</root>