<root id="aag-afi7" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Chapter 7 — Case Study of Changing the Classification
of a Security to Held to Maturity</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Chapter 7</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">
      Case Study of Changing the Classification
of a Security to Held to Maturity
      <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
        <para>
          The following case study does not include any additional audit
considerations or risks of misstatement related to other-than-temporary
impairment. Guidance on other-than-temporary impairment is found in
FASB  320-10-35, 320-10-45, and 320-10-50, as well as Topic 5M, "Other
Than Temporary Impairment of Certain Investments in Equity Securities,"
of the SEC’s . The guidance in FASB ASC 320–10–35, 320–10–45,
and 320–10–50 includes “Pending Content” resulting from various Accounting
Standards Updates (ASUs)
          <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">Codification of Staff Accounting
Bulletins</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box_shade">
    <para>
      <emphasis role="italic">Gray
shaded text in this chapter reflects guidance issued but not yet effective
as of the date of this guide, September 1, 2020, but becoming effective
on or prior to December 31, 2020, exclusive of any option to early
adopt ahead of the mandatory effective date. Unless otherwise indicated,
all unshaded text reflects guidance that was already effective as
of the date of this guide.</emphasis>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <section id="aag-afi7_01" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.01</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.01</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In this case study, the entity changes
the classification of a debt security from available for sale to held
to maturity. The change in classification results from a change in
management’s intent in holding the security.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_02" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.02</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.02</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The "" section illustrates the entity’s accounting for the change in the
classification of the security and highlights the potential misstatements
that can occur for the change in classification and how various inherent
risk considerations affect substantive procedures.
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi7_accounting_considerations">Accounting Considerations</olink>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_accounting_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Accounting Considerations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">
        Accounting Considerations
        <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
          <para>For simplicity, this case study ignores income tax consequences.</para>
        </footnote>
        <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
          <para>
            <emphasis role="shade">
              In April 2019, FASB issued ASU No. 2019-04, , and  to clarify
and improve areas of guidance related to recently-issued ASU Nos.
2016-13, , 2017-12, , and 2016-01, . The ASU identifies the following
five topic categories:
              <emphasis role="italic">Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Topic 825, Financial Instruments</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments — Credit Losses
(Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging (Topic
815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments — Overall
(Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities</emphasis>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para>
            Each topic category contains a variety of issues and the effective
dates for each issue depend on the topic category. “Pending Content”
from Topic 1, Issue 1B of the ASU is addressed in  of this guide. The
amendments in Issue 1B are effective as follows: for entities that
have not yet adopted the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13, the effective
dates and transition requirements are the same as those for that ASU;
for entities that have adopted the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13,
the effective dates are for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early
adoption is permitted. See the ASU, available at , for application details.
            <olink targetptr="aag-afi7_05">paragraph 7.05</olink>
            <ulink url="fasb.org">fasb.org</ulink>
          </para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>
                <emphasis role="shade">Topic 1: Codification Improvements
Resulting from the June 11, 2018 and November 1, 2018 Credit Losses
Transition Resource Group (TRG) Meetings</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                <emphasis role="shade">Topic 2: Codification Improvements
to Update 2016-13</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                <emphasis role="shade">Topic 3: Codification Improvements
to Update 2017-12 and Other Hedging Items</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                <emphasis role="shade">Topic 4: Codification Improvements
to Update 2016-01</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                <emphasis role="shade">Topic 5: Codification Improvements
Resulting from the November 1, 2018 Credit Losses TRG Meeting</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </footnote>
      </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi7_03" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.03</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.03</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">BEV manufactures parts for high-performance
bicycles. Several years ago, BEV purchased a 6%, AA-rated bond of
a publicly traded copper mining company at its $800,000 face amount.
The intent of BEV’s management was to invest in a relatively stable
security that would be available to finance BEV’s plant expansion
that they anticipated would take place within a short period of time.
Accordingly, the bond was classified as available for sale.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_04" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.04</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.04</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        For the last 2 years, competition for
BEV’s products has increased dramatically, and as a result, BEV has
failed to continue to grow. At the end of the current year, management
dropped its plans to expand the plant, decided to hold the bond to
maturity, and changed the classification of the bond to held to maturity.
Several months before the change in classification, the bond’s fair
value began to decline. By the time the classification was changed,
the bond’s fair value had declined by $150,000, from $800,000 to $650,000. 
        <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
          <para>For simplicity, this case study assumes that at the end of the
prior year, the bond’s fair value equaled its $800,000 face amount.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_05" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.05</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.05</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        According to FASB  (ASC) 320, , BEV should
record the unrealized loss through the date of change in classification
through a $150,000 charge to other comprehensive income and a $150,000
credit directly to the bond. The $650,000 fair value at the date the
classification is changed becomes the bond’s new cost basis. With
the exception of a decline in fair value that is other than temporary,
changes in the fair value of the bond after the change in classification
should only be recognized when they are realized. However, any decline
in value that is other than temporary should be recognized in accordance
with the requirements of paragraphs 34A–34E of FASB ASC 320-10-35.
The measurement of the decline in value (impairment) should not include
partial recoveries after the balance sheet date. The fair value of
the bond would then become the new cost basis and should not be adjusted
for subsequent recoveries in fair value. However, the amortized cost
basis should be adjusted for accretion and amortization as discussed
in FASB ASC 320-10-35-35.
        <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Debt Securities</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        <emphasis role="shade">
          Based on “Pending
Content” (added by Accounting Standards Update No. 2019-04, ) in paragraph 10B of  FASB ASC 320-10-35,
BEV should reclassify and transfer the debt security to the held-to-maturity
category at its amortized cost basis of $650,000 (which is reduced
by any previous write-offs but excludes any allowance for credit losses)
plus or minus the amount of remaining unrealized holding loss reported
in accumulated other comprehensive income. BEV should evaluate the
debt security for an allowance for credit losses by following the
guidance in FASB ASC 326-20, . BEV should
continue to report the unrealized holding loss at the date of the
transfer in a separate component of shareholders’ equity, such as
accumulated other comprehensive income; the loss should be amortized
over the remaining life of the security as an adjustment of yield
in a manner consistent with the amortization of any premium or discount.
          <emphasis role="italic">Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825,
Financial Instruments</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses-Measured at Amortized Cost</emphasis>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_06" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.06</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.06</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        When a bond is reclassified as held to
maturity, the unrealized appreciation or depreciation in its value
at the date of reclassification continues to be reported as a separate
component of equity (such as accumulated other comprehensive income).
However, it is treated as a premium or discount and amortized over
future years as a yield adjustment. The bond’s amortized cost basis,
which is its carrying amount, is its $800,000 face amount less the
unamortized portion of the $150,000 unrealized loss at the date of
reclassification. Therefore, when the bond matures, its carrying amount
will be its face amount. In financial statements after the reclassification,
BEV’s financial statements should disclose, among other things, the
bond’s amortized cost basis, its fair value, and the unrealized appreciation
or depreciation in its value. The unrealized appreciation or depreciation
disclosed in the financial statements should be the difference between
the bond’s fair value and its new amortized cost basis (that is, the
fair value at the date of reclassification adjusted for unamortized
premium or discount).
        <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
          <para>It may also be viewed as the $650,000 fair value at the date
of reclassification plus cumulative amortization of the $150,000 unrealized
loss at the date of reclassification.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_07" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.07</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.07</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">BEV could use the following entries to
record the change in classification of the bond from available for
sale to held to maturity:</para>
      <table frame="none" id="aag-afi7_table1" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="3.49in"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="1.30in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.25in"/>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>Other comprehensive income</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$150,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  Investment in available-for-sale bond
                  <tab/>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$150,000</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>To recognize the decline in the bond’s fair value through the
date its classification was changed</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>Investment in held-to-maturity bond</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$650,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  Investment in available-for-sale bond
                  <tab/>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$650,000</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>To record the change in the bond’s classification</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_08" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.08</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.08</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The $150,000 unrealized holding loss related
to the bond at the time of the reclassification would continue to
be reported in accumulated other comprehensive income. Each year,
BEV will receive $48,000 in cash from the issuer of the bond, which
is 6% of the bond’s $800,000 face amount. An effective interest rate
of 11.08393% would discount 5 annual payments of $48,000 and an $800,000
principal payment at the end of the fifth year to the bond’s $650,000
carrying amount when the classification is changed. Accordingly, the
difference between the result of applying this rate to the bond’s
carrying amount and the $48,000 stated interest should be recorded
as amortization of the discount. As the following table illustrates,
the substance of the accounting is that each year, cash increases
$48,000; the bond’s carrying amount increases by the discount amortization;
and equity increases by the result of applying 11.08393% to the carrying
amount of the bond at the beginning of the year:</para>
      <table frame="none" id="aag-afi7_table2" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="5" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="0.62in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.00in"/>
          <colspec colname="c5" colwidth="1.00in"/>
          <colspec colname="c7" colwidth="1.00in"/>
          <colspec colname="c9" colwidth="1.00in"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Year</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Carrying Amount of the Bond</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Cash Received</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Discount Amortization</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Total Increase in Equity</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>1</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$650,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$48,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$24,046</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$72,046</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>2</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 674,046</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 48,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 26,711</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 74,711</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>3</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 700,757</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 48,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 29,671</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 77,671</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>4</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 730,428</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 48,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 32,960</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 80,960</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>5</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 763,388</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>48,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 36,612</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para> 84,612</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$800,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$240,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$150,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$390,000</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" nameend="c9" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>The $390,000 cumulative increase in equity over the 5 remaining
years the bond is outstanding equals the $240,000 interest received
plus the amortization of the $150,000 unrealized loss at the date
of reclassification.</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_09" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.09</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.09</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The increase in equity should be split
between interest income and other comprehensive income. Because BEV
will not realize the $150,000 unrealized loss charged to other comprehensive
income, the effective rate of return on the bond reported in earnings
is equal to the bond’s stated interest rate. Therefore, interest income
equals interest received. In substance, the excess of the increase
in equity over the interest income equals the amortization of the
discount and is reported as other comprehensive income. The 3 entries
for the first year would be as follows:</para>
      <table frame="none" id="aag-afi7_table3" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="3.49in"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="1.00in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="0.98in"/>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>Cash</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>$48,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>
                  Interest income
                  <tab/>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>$48,000</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>To record interest received</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>Discount on investment in held-to-maturity bond</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>$24,046</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>
                  Interest income
                  <tab/>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>$24,046</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>To record amortization of the discount on the held-to-maturity
bond</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>Interest income</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>$24,046</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>
                  Other comprehensive income
                  <tab/>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>$24,046</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                <para>To record amortization of the unrealized loss included in accumulated
other comprehensive income</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              <entry rowsep="0"/>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_10" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.10</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.10</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraphs 17–35 of FASB ASC 320-10-35
address the determination regarding when an investment is considered
impaired, whether that impairment is other than temporary, and the
measurement of an impairment loss. FASB ASC 320-10-35 also includes
accounting considerations subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary
impairment and requires certain disclosures about unrealized losses
that have not been recognized as other-than-temporary impairments.</para>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        “Pending Content” in paragraphs 17–35
of FASB ASC 320-10-35 is superseded upon adoption of by ASU No. 2016-13, .
        <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments — Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement
of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_11" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.11</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.11</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">At the end of the fifth year, when the
principal is collected, the</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>discount will have been amortized, and the carrying
amount of the bond will be $800,000, which is the principal due on
the bond.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>$150,000 unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive
income will have been eliminated through credits to other comprehensive
income. </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_auditing_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Auditing Considerations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Auditing Considerations</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <paraBlock role="ps_box">
      <para>
        <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
        <emphasis role="bold">
           Update 7-1 : Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting
Estimates, and Related Disclosures
          <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>
        In July
2020, the AICPA issued , , which supersedes AU-C section 540,  and amends the following AU-C sections:
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">Statement
on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 143</olink>
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
          <para>
            All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">
              <emphasis role="italic">Professional Standards</emphasis>
            </olink>
          </para>
        </footnote>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  (AU-C sec. 200)
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  (AU-C sec.
230)
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  (AU-C sec. 240)
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_240">Section 240</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement
Audit</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  (AU-C sec. 260)
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_260">Section 260</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication With Those
Charged With Governance</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  (AU-C sec. 501)
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  (AU-C
sec. 580)
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_580">Section 580</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  (AU-C sec. 700)
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial
Statements</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  (AU-C sec. 701)
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">Section 701</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Key Audit Matters in the
Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </para>
      <para>
         addresses the auditor’s responsibilities relating
to accounting estimates, including fair value accounting estimates
and related disclosures, in an audit of financial statements. This
SAS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods ending
on or after December 15, 2023. A link to the final SAS and other resources
can be found on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org.
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
        <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
      </para>
    </paraBlock>
    <section id="aag-afi7_description_of_the_entity" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Description of the Entity</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Entity</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi7_12" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>7.12</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">7.12</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">BEV manufactures parts for high-performance
bicycles. Recently, BEV hired a new controller who came to the entity
with five years of experience in public accounting. During the years
of BEV’s growth, the owners of the entity became less involved with
the daily operations of the business, and the reliability of controls
suffered. One of the first tasks of the new controller was to design
and implement a more formal system of internal control that emphasized
segregation of duties and strong oversight and monitoring of all accounting
functions by supervisors. Included in this formal system is the requirement
that one of BEV’s owners personally review the month-end investment
statements sent by the broker-dealer who holds and services the bond.
These documents are then sent to the accounting department for entry
into the accounting system. Based largely on the improvements made
by the new controller, the auditor determined that BEV’s control environment
is well-designed and capable of mitigating control risk.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_summary_of_accounting" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Summary of Accounting</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Summary of Accounting</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi7_13" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>7.13</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">7.13</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          At the date of reclassification from available
for sale to held to maturity, BEV should reduce the carrying amount
of the bond to its ,
as defined by FASB ASC 820, , through a charge to other comprehensive income and a credit to
the carrying amount of the bond. The unrealized loss at that date
should be amortized over the remaining life of the bond as a discount,
thereby increasing the carrying amount of the bond over the remaining
life of the bond so that it equals the bond’s face amount when the
bond matures. The loss charged to other comprehensive income should
continue to be reported in accumulated other comprehensive income
but amortized over the remaining life of the bond through credits
to other comprehensive income in amounts equal to the discount amortization.
As a result of this accounting, each year, BEV will report in earnings
interest at the bond’s 6% stated rate and other comprehensive income
equal to the discount amortization.
          <emphasis role="italic">fair value</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">Fair Value Measurement</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_types_of_potential_misstatements" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Types of Potential Misstatements</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Types of Potential Misstatements</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi7_14" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>7.14</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">7.14</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          . During the audit period, BEV reclassified the bond from available
for sale to held to maturity. The accounting for the change in classification
and subsequent amortization may not conform to the requirements of
FASB ASC 320.
          <emphasis role="italic">Improper accounting</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi7_15" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>7.15</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">7.15</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          . The classification of a bond as held
to maturity requires BEV to have both the intent and ability to hold
the bond to maturity. BEV may have reclassified the bond in the absence
of a positive intent to hold it until maturity and the ability to
do so.
          <emphasis role="italic">Improper change
in classification</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi7_16" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>7.16</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">7.16</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          . The determination of fair value at the date
of reclassification may not conform with the guidance in FASB ASC
320, including the guidance on evaluating other-than-temporary impairments.
          <emphasis role="italic">Improper determination
of fair value</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          <emphasis role="shade">
            . The
determination of fair value at the date of reclassification may not
conform with the guidance in FASB ASC 320 and FASB ASC 326-20.
            <emphasis role="italic">Improper determination of fair value</emphasis>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi7_17" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>7.17</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">7.17</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          . The bond may not exist or be owned by BEV at
the date of reclassification.
          <emphasis role="italic">Existence and
ownership</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi7_18" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>7.18</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">7.18</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          . BEV’s financial statement may not comply with
the presentation and disclosure requirements in FASB ASC 320 related
to reclassification of the bond.
          <emphasis role="italic">Presentation and
disclosure</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_inherent_risk_factors_to" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for This Transaction
in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatements</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for
This Transaction in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatements</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi7_19" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>7.19</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">7.19</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Because the classification of the bond
had been changed from available for sale to held to maturity, the
auditor assessed inherent risk to be high based on the following:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              . The accounting personnel’s lack of experience with changes in bond
classifications and the special accounting considerations increase
the inherent risk of the change being accounted for incorrectly.
              <emphasis role="italic">The entity’s experience</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              . During the audit period, management changed its objective in holding
the bond. Previously, management intended it to be available for sale,
but now, its stated objective was to hold the security to its maturity. 
              <emphasis role="italic">Management’s objectives</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_control_risk" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Control Risk</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Control Risk</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi7_20" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>7.20</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">7.20</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          BEV uses a broker-dealer to hold and service
its financial instruments, including the investment in the bond. However,
the fact that the entity uses a service organization to process some
of its financial instrument transactions does not, in and of itself,
require the auditor to obtain information about the broker-dealer’s
controls. AU-C section 315B, , addresses the auditor’s requirement to obtain
an understanding of the entity and its environment as part of performing
an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Paragraph .A54 of AU-C section 315B states that an entity’s
use of IT may affect any of the five components of internal control
relevant to the achievement of the entity’s financial reporting, operations,
or compliance objectives and its operating units or business functions.
This understanding should be sufficient for the auditor to
          <emphasis role="italic">Understanding
the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks of Material
Misstatement</emphasis>
          <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
            <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statements on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>identify the types of potential misstatement of the
assertions.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>consider factors that affect the risk that the potential
misstatements would be material to the financial statements.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>design substantive tests.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi7_21" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>7.21</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">7.21</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The types of potential material misstatements
relating to BEV’s investment in the bond relate primarily to the change
in classification from available for sale to held to maturity, which
is a risk that will not be addressed by the controls at the broker-dealer.
BEV maintains all the information necessary to perform substantive
procedures on investments. Accordingly, the auditor does not have
to obtain an understanding of controls in operation at the broker-dealer
in order to plan the audit.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi7_22" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>7.22</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">7.22</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Because the purchase and subsequent reclassification
of the bond was considered to be an isolated transaction, control
risk was assessed as high.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_timing_of_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Timing of Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Timing of Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi7_23" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>7.23</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">7.23</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">All relevant assertions associated with
this transaction will be substantively tested at year-end. </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_materiality" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Materiality</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Materiality</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi7_24" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>7.24</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">7.24</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The transaction is considered material.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_design_of_substantive_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Design of Substantive Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Design of Substantive Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi7_25" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>7.25</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">7.25</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor defined the following objectives
and related procedures for the audit of assertions about the transaction:</para>
        <table frame="all" id="aag-afi7_table4" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.97in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="2.99in"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">
                      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Objective</emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">
                      <emphasis role="italic">Procedure</emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The bond exists and is owned by BEV.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Confirm existence and ownership with the broker-dealer.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Management authorized the change in classification of the bond
from available for sale to held to maturity; this includes considerations
relative to the securities’ eligibility to be classified as held to
maturity.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Review minutes of meetings or any applicable internal
memorandums of relevant groups for evidence that management authorized
the change.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Absent written evidence in the minutes or other documentation,
perform other procedures to determine whether the change was authorized,
such as inquiry or obtaining a representation in the management representation
letter.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The bond’s fair value at the date its classification was changed
was properly determined.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Test the fair value of the bond at the date of reclassification
by agreeing market price to independent published sources.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Review any notes from periodic pricing meetings with
the traders or management of the entity to determine whether steps
were taken to properly value the bond.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The difference between the bond’s fair value and its face amount
at the date the bond’s classification was changed was properly recorded
and amortized.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Recalculate the difference between the bond’s face
amount and fair value at the date the bond’s classification was changed
to held to maturity. Confirm the assumptions used in the calculation,
including the notional amount and rate of the bond, because these
inputs are used to determine the face amount and fair value.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Recalculate the amortization of the resulting discount. </para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Management has the positive intent and ability to hold the bond
to maturity.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Review management’s cash flow forecasts, or perform
other procedures considered necessary to assess BEV’s ability to hold
the security to maturity.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>
                        Obtain a representation in the management representation
letter confirming management’s intent to hold the security to maturity.
                        <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
                          <para>
                            A written representation of management’s intent and ability
with regard to held-to-maturity securities does not constitute sufficient
appropriate audit evidence.  of this guide provide additional guidance on the
types of auditing procedures the auditor might perform to corroborate
management’s stated intent and ability to realize that intent.
                            <olink targetptr="aag-afi6_07">Paragraphs
6.07–.08</olink>
                          </para>
                        </footnote>
                      </para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Presentation and disclosure are appropriate.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>
                        Read the financial statements and compare the presentation
and disclosure with the requirements of FASB  320, .
                        <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
                        <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Debt and Equity Securities</emphasis>
                      </para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>