<root id="aag-afi8_11" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>8.11</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">8.11</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">In obtaining an understanding of the entity
and its environment, including its internal control , the auditor
determines that</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Lane initiates trades and directs the broker-dealer
to execute them.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Lane maintains records of the trades it directs the
broker-dealer to execute.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the broker-dealer sends a confirmation of each trade
to Lane, which Lane usually receives within three business days.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Lane compares the information in the trade confirmation
with its record of the trade that it directed the broker-dealer to
execute and investigates significant differences.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Lane records the trade in the applicable general ledger
accounts.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>at the end of the year, Lane adjusts the general ledger
accounts for trades it has initiated for which confirmations have
not been received. Information for that adjustment is obtained from
Lane’s record of trades it directed the broker-dealer to execute and
the confirmations of those trades it received subsequent to year-end.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>monthly, the broker-dealer sends Lane a statement
that includes trades, servicing transactions, a description of the
financial instruments held, and the fair value of each of those financial
instruments. </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>monthly, Lane compares the information about trades
and the components of its financial instrument portfolio shown in
its accounting records with the broker-dealer’s monthly statement
and investigates significant differences.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>monthly, Lane records servicing transactions and changes
in unrealized holding gains and losses based on information in the
broker-dealer’s monthly statement. Lane compares the broker-dealer
information with its expectations based on published information and
investigates significant differences.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>