<root id="aag-afi4_factors_to_consider_in" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Factors to Consider in Determining Whether and to What
Extent to Test the Operating Effectiveness of Controls </titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Factors to Consider in Determining Whether
and to What Extent to Test the Operating Effectiveness of Controls </title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi4_09" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.09</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.09</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">An expectation that controls are operating
effectively may be more common when dealing with an entity with well-established
controls; therefore, testing controls may be an effective means of
obtaining audit evidence. When an entity has a trading function, substantive
procedures alone may not provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence
due to the volume of contracts and the different systems used. Tests
of controls, however, will not be sufficient on their own because
the auditor is required by paragraph .18 of AU-C section 330B to design
and perform substantive procedures for all relevant assertions related
to each material class of transactions, account balance, and disclosure.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_10" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.10</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.10</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Entities with a high volume of trading
and use of financial instruments may have more sophisticated controls
and an effective risk management function; therefore, the auditor
may be more likely to test controls in obtaining evidence about the
following:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>The occurrence, completeness, valuation, accuracy,
and cutoff of the transactions</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The existence, rights and obligations, and completeness
of account balances</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_11" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.11</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.11</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In those entities with relatively few
financial instrument transactions</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>management and those charged with governance may have
only a limited understanding of financial instruments and how they
affect the business.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the entity may only have a few different types of
instruments, with little or no interaction between them.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          there is unlikely to be a complex control environment
(for example, the controls described in , "Internal Control," of this guide may not be in
place at the entity).
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi3">chapter 3</olink>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>management may use pricing information from third-party
pricing sources to value their instruments.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>controls over the use of pricing information from
third-party pricing sources may be less sophisticated.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_12" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.12</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.12</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">When an entity has relatively few transactions
involving financial instruments, it may be relatively easy for the
auditor to obtain an understanding of the entity’s objectives for
using the financial instruments and the characteristics of the instruments.
In such circumstances, much of the audit evidence is likely to be
substantive in nature; the auditor may perform the majority of the
audit work at year-end; and third-party confirmations are likely to
provide evidence in relation to the completeness, accuracy, and existence
of the transactions. </para>
  </section>
</root>