<root id="pra-sqcs_1_15" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>1.15</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">1.15</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">Establishing and maintaining policies
such as the following assist the firm in obtaining the assurance required
relating to the engagement performance element of quality control:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Plan all engagements to meet professional, regulatory,
and the firm’s requirements.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Perform work and issue reports and other communications
that meet professional, regulatory, and the firm’s requirements.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Require that work performed by other team members
be reviewed by qualified engagement team members, which may include
the engagement partner, on a timely basis.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Require the engagement team to complete the assembly
of final engagement files on a timely basis.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Establish procedures to maintain the confidentiality,
safe custody, integrity, accessibility, and retrievability of engagement
documentation.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Require the retention of engagement documentation
for a period of time sufficient to meet the needs of the firm, professional
standards, laws, and regulations.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Require that</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>consultation take place when appropriate (for example,
when dealing with complex, unusual, unfamiliar, difficult, or contentious
issues);</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>sufficient and appropriate resources be available
to enable appropriate consultation to take place;</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>all the relevant facts known to the engagement team
be provided to those consulted;</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the nature, scope, and conclusions of such consultations
be documented; and</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the conclusions resulting from such consultations
be implemented.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Require that</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>differences of opinion be dealt with and resolved;</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>conclusions reached are documented and implemented;
and</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the report not be released until the matter is resolved.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Require that</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>all engagements be evaluated against the criteria
for determining whether an engagement quality control review should
be performed;</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>an engagement quality control review be performed
for all engagements that meet the criteria; and</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the review be completed before the report is released.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Establish procedures addressing the nature, timing,
extent, and documentation of the engagement quality control review.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Establish criteria for the eligibility of engagement
quality control reviewers.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>