<root id="aag-afi8_30" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>8.30</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">8.30</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">In determining the nature and extent of
audit evidence to be obtained for financial statement balances representing
assets held or transactions processed by a service organization for
a user entity, the following procedures may be considered by the user
auditor:</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    . The reliability
of this source of evidence is determined by the nature and extent
of the accounting records and supporting documentation retained by
the user entity. In some cases, the user entity may not maintain independent
detailed records or documentation of specific transactions undertaken
on its behalf. 
    <emphasis role="italic">
      a.Inspecting
records and documents held by the user entity
      <tab/>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    .
The user auditor’s access to the records of the service organization
may be established as part of the contractual arrangements between
the user entity and service organization. The user auditor may also
use another auditor on its behalf to gain access to the user entity’s
records maintained by the service organization or may ask the service
organization through the user entity for access to the user entity’s
records maintained by the service organization.
    <emphasis role="italic">
      b.Inspecting
records and documents held by the service organization
      <tab/>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    . When the user entity maintains independent records of balances
and transactions, confirmation from the service organization corroborating
those records usually constitutes reliable audit evidence concerning
the existence of the transactions and assets concerned. For example,
when multiple service organizations are used, such as an investment
manager and a custodian, and these service organizations maintain
independent records, the user auditor may confirm balances with these
organizations in order to compare this information with the independent
records of the user entity. If the user entity does not maintain independent
records, information obtained in confirmations from the service organization
is merely a statement of what is reflected in the records maintained
by the service organization. Therefore, such confirmations do not,
taken alone, constitute reliable audit evidence. In these circumstances,
the user auditor may consider whether an alternative source of independent
evidence can be identified.
    <emphasis role="italic">
      c.Obtaining
confirmations of balances and transactions from the service organization
      <tab/>
    </emphasis>
    <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
      <para>
        Paragraph .A27 of AU-C section 402B, .
        <emphasis role="italic">Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity Using a Service Organization</emphasis>
      </para>
    </footnote>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    . The effectiveness of analytical procedures is likely to vary by
assertion and will be affected by the extent and detail of information
available.
    <emphasis role="italic">
      d.Performing
analytical procedures on the records maintained by the user entity
or on the reports received from the service organization
      <tab/>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
</root>