<root id="aag-afi5_audit_considerations_when_a" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Audit Considerations When a Management’s Specialist Is
Used by the Entity</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Audit Considerations When a Management’s
Specialist Is Used by the Entity</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi5_45" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.45</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.45</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      As discussed in  of this guide, management may engage a valuation
specialist to value some or all of the entity’s financial instruments.
Such specialists may be brokers, investment bankers, pricing services
that also provide valuation services, or other specialized valuation
firms.
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi1">chapter 1</olink>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_46" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.46</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.46</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraph .08 of AU-C section 500B contains
requirements for the auditor when evaluating evidence from a specialist
engaged by management. The extent of the auditor’s procedures in relation
to management’s specialist and that specialist’s work depend on the
significance of the specialist’s work for the auditor’s purposes.
Evaluating the appropriateness of management’s specialist’s work assists
the auditor in assessing whether the prices or valuations supplied
by management’s specialist provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence
to support the valuations. Examples of procedures the auditor may
perform include</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>evaluating the competence, capabilities, and objectivity
of management’s specialist (for example, his or her relationship with
the entity, reputation and standing in the market, experience with
the particular types of instruments, and understanding of the relevant
financial reporting framework applicable to the valuations).</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>obtaining an understanding of the work of management’s
specialist (for example, by assessing the appropriateness of the valuation
technique[s] used and the key market variables and assumptions used
in the valuation technique[s]).</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          evaluating the appropriateness of that specialist’s
work as audit evidence. At this point, the focus is on the appropriateness
of the specialist’s work at the level of the individual financial
instrument. For a sample of the relevant instruments, it may be appropriate
to develop an estimate independently (see  on developing a point estimate or range)
using different data and assumptions, then compare that estimate with
that of management’s specialist.
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi5_48">paragraphs 5.48–.49</olink>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>other procedures that may include</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
      <listitem>
        <para>modeling different assumptions to derive assumptions
in another model, then considering the reasonableness of those derived
assumptions.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>comparing management’s point estimates with the auditor’s
point estimates to determine if management’s estimates are consistently
higher or lower.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_47" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.47</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.47</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Assumptions may be made or identified
by management’s specialist to assist management in valuing its financial
instruments. Such assumptions, when used by management, become management’s
assumptions that the auditor needs to consider in the same manner
as management’s other assumptions. </para>
  </section>
</root>