<root id="aag-afi10_17" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>10.17</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">10.17</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">Key factors in assessing JLM’s control
environment are the following:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>JLM’s management and board of directors instill high
integrity and ethical values throughout all aspects of the entity.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>JLM has in place a corporate compliance program specifically
prohibiting fraud against the entity that states the penalties for
fraud and requires employees to report fraud. In addition, a process
exists to identify high-risk areas of potential fraud exposure for
the entity.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>JLM has in place a quality information system that
provides system-generated information that gives management the ability
to make appropriate decisions in managing and controlling the entity’s
activities and to prepare reliable financial reports.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>The board of directors is independent from management
and holds frequent, timely meetings with the CFO, accounting officer,
internal auditors, and external auditors.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Management provides sufficient, timely information
to allow monitoring of management’s financing objectives and strategies
and JLM’s financial position and operating results.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Management consults with the board of directors on
all business risks. Such business risks are accepted only after the
board of directors’ study and approval. The board of directors approves
all transactions that involve derivatives.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>JLM’s organizational structure is appropriate to the
entity’s size and activities and has the ability to provide information
appropriate to manage the entity’s activities. The knowledge and experience
of key managers are appropriate to their responsibilities.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Assignment of responsibility and delegation of authority
are appropriate for the entity, given its size and the nature and
complexity of activities. Authority has been delegated to deal with
organizational goals and objectives, operating functions, and regulatory
requirements, including responsibility for information systems and
authorization for changes.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>JLM’s investing and financing activities are monitored
closely by the board of directors.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Management and the board of directors have a high
commitment to competence when hiring employees. The investing and
financing function is staffed with individuals who are knowledgeable
about accounting for derivatives.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>