<root id="aag-afi_description_of_the_entity" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Description of the Entity</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Entity</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi10_17" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>10.17</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">10.17</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Key factors in assessing JLM’s control
environment are the following:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>JLM’s management and board of directors instill high
integrity and ethical values throughout all aspects of the entity.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>JLM has in place a corporate compliance program specifically
prohibiting fraud against the entity that states the penalties for
fraud and requires employees to report fraud. In addition, a process
exists to identify high-risk areas of potential fraud exposure for
the entity.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>JLM has in place a quality information system that
provides system-generated information that gives management the ability
to make appropriate decisions in managing and controlling the entity’s
activities and to prepare reliable financial reports.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The board of directors is independent from management
and holds frequent, timely meetings with the CFO, accounting officer,
internal auditors, and external auditors.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Management provides sufficient, timely information
to allow monitoring of management’s financing objectives and strategies
and JLM’s financial position and operating results.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Management consults with the board of directors on
all business risks. Such business risks are accepted only after the
board of directors’ study and approval. The board of directors approves
all transactions that involve derivatives.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>JLM’s organizational structure is appropriate to the
entity’s size and activities and has the ability to provide information
appropriate to manage the entity’s activities. The knowledge and experience
of key managers are appropriate to their responsibilities.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Assignment of responsibility and delegation of authority
are appropriate for the entity, given its size and the nature and
complexity of activities. Authority has been delegated to deal with
organizational goals and objectives, operating functions, and regulatory
requirements, including responsibility for information systems and
authorization for changes.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>JLM’s investing and financing activities are monitored
closely by the board of directors.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Management and the board of directors have a high
commitment to competence when hiring employees. The investing and
financing function is staffed with individuals who are knowledgeable
about accounting for derivatives.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_18" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>10.18</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">10.18</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Although the volume of derivatives transactions
is low, the entity has established controls over them. Some of JLM’s
key controls include the following:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Overall, controls over financial reporting of derivatives
transactions adequately provide segregation of duties and management
oversight.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>JLM has in place written policies regarding derivatives
transactions that were approved by the board of directors.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The board of directors approves all derivatives transactions. </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Controls are in place to ensure that derivatives designated
as hedges meet the criteria for hedge accounting, both at inception
and on an ongoing basis. </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>JLM’s CFO prepares an analysis for review by the board
of directors that identifies</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
      <listitem>
        <para>the objective of the hedge and the strategy for accomplishing
the objective.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the nature of the risk being hedged.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the derivative hedging instrument.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the hedged item.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>how the entity will assess hedge effectiveness. </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>JLM’s investing and financing function maintains proper
segregation of duties among dealing (committing JLM to the transaction),
settlement (initiating cash payments and accepting cash receipts),
and accounting (recording all transactions and the valuation of the
derivative).</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The board has approved a list of top-tier investment
brokers that management may utilize for investment services.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>JLM has put in place controls and procedures for the
prevention or detection of errors, including the following:</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
      <listitem>
        <para>Accounting entries for derivatives transactions are
reviewed by senior management of the investing and financing function
and subject to periodic review by the CFO.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Fair values are obtained from a broker-dealer and
reviewed on a monthly basis.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Adjustments to financial instruments’ general ledger
accounts are reviewed and approved by the controller.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>