<root id="aag-afi_appF_amounts_excluded_from_the" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Amounts Excluded from the Assessment of Hedge Effectiveness</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Amounts Excluded from the Assessment
of Hedge Effectiveness</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">Current GAAP permits an entity to exclude
option premiums and forward points from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
The amendments in this ASU continue to allow an entity to exclude
those components of a hedging instrument’s change in fair value from
the assessment of hedge effectiveness. Additionally, the amendments
permit an entity to exclude the portion of the change in fair value
of a currency swap that is attributable to a cross-currency basis
spread from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">For all types of hedges, if an entity excludes
certain portions of a hedging instrument’s change in fair value from
the assessment of hedge effectiveness (excluded component), the amendments
permit an entity to recognize in earnings the initial value of the
excluded component using a systematic and rational method over the
life of the hedging instrument. If an entity elects this method, any
difference between the change in fair value of the excluded component
and amounts recognized under the systematic and rational method is
recognized in other comprehensive income, whereas for net investment
hedges, the difference is recognized in the cumulative translation
adjustment section of other comprehensive income. An entity also may
elect to recognize all fair value changes in an excluded component
currently in earnings, consistent with current GAAP.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">For fair value and cash flow hedges, an entity
should present amounts related to excluded components that are recognized
in earnings in the same income statement line item that is used to
present the earnings effect of the hedged item. For net investment
hedges, the amendments do not specify a required presentation for
excluded components.</para>
</root>