<root id="aag-afi4_tests_of_controls" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Tests of Controls</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Tests of Controls</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi4_14" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.14</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.14</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In reaching a decision on the nature,
timing, and extent of testing of controls, the auditor may consider
factors such as the following:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>The nature, frequency, and volume of financial instrument
transactions.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The strength of controls, including whether controls
are appropriately designed to respond to the risks associated with
an entity’s volume of financial instrument transactions and whether
a governance framework over the entity’s financial instrument activities
exists.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The importance of particular controls to the overall
control objectives and processes in place at the entity, including
the sophistication of the information systems to support financial
instrument transactions.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The monitoring of controls and identified deficiencies
in control procedures.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The issues the controls are intended to address (for
example, controls related to the exercise of judgments compared with
controls over supporting data). Substantive procedures are likely
to be more effective than relying on controls related to the exercise
of judgment.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The competency of those involved in the control activities
(for example whether the entity has adequate capacity, including during
periods of stress, and ability to establish and verify valuations
for the financial instruments to which it is exposed).</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The frequency of performance of these control activities.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The level of precision the controls are intended to
achieve.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The evidence of performance of control activities.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The timing of key financial instrument transactions
(for example, whether they are close to period-end).</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>