<root id="aag-afi11_29" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>11.29</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">11.29</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">
    . Control activities include, among other things, the following:
    <emphasis role="italic">Control activities</emphasis>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Controls have been implemented with respect to control
objectives of</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>completeness of records.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>validity of records.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>restricted access to assets.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Segregation of the accounting function from trade
authorization and execution. The accounting department is responsible
for cash and derivatives position reconciliations between the accounting
and trading records and broker or counterparty statements. Quarterly,
the controller reviews hedging activities for compliance with the
requirements of FASB ASC 815, .
        <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives
and Hedging</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Data files with such information as counterparty limits
are maintained apart from the traders. The CFO authorizes any changes
to these files. </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Austin-Jhanes’ derivatives trading system has an automated
interface with the general ledger and updates the general ledger monthly.
Movements of cash associated with derivatives transactions are authorized
and executed by the treasurer’s department, which is separate from
the derivatives trading group.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Austin-Jhanes’ derivatives trading, sales, accounting,
and other transaction processing activities are highly automated.
There are effective general computer controls at the data centers
that process the entity’s transactions and other information.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>