<root id="aag-afi10" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Chapter 10 — Case Study of the Use of an Interest Rate
Swap to Hedge Existing Debt</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Chapter 10</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">Case Study of the Use of an Interest
Rate Swap to Hedge Existing Debt</subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <para role="ps_box_shade">
    <emphasis role="italic">Gray shaded text
in this chapter reflects guidance issued but not yet effective as
of the date of this guide, September 1, 2020, but becoming effective
on or prior to December 31, 2020, exclusive of any option to early
adopt ahead of the mandatory effective date. Unless otherwise indicated,
all unshaded text reflects guidance that was already effective as
of the date of this guide.</emphasis>
  </para>
  <section id="aag-afi10_01" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>10.01</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">10.01</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In this case study, the entity has issued
a fixed-rate bond and is exposed to the risk that changes in the benchmark
interest rate will change the bond’s fair value. In order to mitigate
this risk, the entity enters into an interest rate swap that effectively
converts the fixed-rate liability into a variable-rate liability.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_02" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>10.02</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">10.02</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Under FASB  (ASC) 815, , the change in the fair value
of a derivative designated as a fair value hedge is recognized in
earnings together with the change in the fair value of the hedged
item that is attributable to the risk being hedged. In this case study,
the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap will be offset
by the change in the fair value of the obligation under the bond that
is attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. The changes
have opposite effects on earnings. For example, if the change in the
fair value of the obligation under the bond from a change in the benchmark
interest rate creates a gain, the change in the fair value of the
swap will create a loss. 
      <emphasis role="italic">Accounting
Standards Codification</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_03" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>10.03</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">10.03</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The hedging instrument in this case study
is an interest rate swap.  are contracts to exchange, for a period of time, the investment
performance of one underlying instrument for the investment performance
of another instrument without exchanging the instruments themselves.
The interest rate swap used in this case study involves the swap of
interest at a variable rate based on a designated benchmark interest
rate (in this case study, 90-day London Interbank Offered Rate [LIBOR])
multiplied by a notional principal amount for interest at a fixed
rate multiplied by that same notional principal amount. 
      <emphasis role="italic">Swaps</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_04" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>10.04</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">10.04</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Under the agreement in this case study,
the entity effectively pays interest under the swap at a variable
rate and receives interest under the swap at a fixed rate (although
the entity actually pays or receives only the net amount under the
swap). In this particular case, the notional amount of the swap is
the same as the principal outstanding under the entity’s bond, and
the fixed rate received under the swap is the same as the bond’s rate.
Accordingly, the amount of fixed-rate interest received under the
swap equals the amount of interest paid on the bond, and the net amount
of interest paid equals the interest paid under the swap at the variable
rate. The swap therefore enables the entity to pay a variable rate
of interest on the amount of principal outstanding under the bond,
thus effectively converting the bond from a fixed-rate to variable-rate
instrument.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_05" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>10.05</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">10.05</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The "" section illustrates accounting for a fair value hedge when the
hedging instrument is an interest rate swap. When certain conditions
are met, the entity may assume that an interest rate swap will be
perfectly effective in hedging interest rate risk and may use the
shortcut method to account for the hedging activity. In this case
study, those conditions are not met, so the example demonstrates the
accounting entries that should be made when the shortcut method is
not available. The "" section illustrates the application of the guidance contained in
AU-C section 501B, .
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi10_accounting_considerations">Accounting Considerations</olink>
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi10_accounting_considerations">Auditing Considerations</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific
Considerations for Selected Items</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi10_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
        <para>
          All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
          <emphasis role="italic">
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
      <footnote id="aag-afi10_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
        <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_accounting_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Accounting Considerations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">
        Accounting Considerations
        <footnote id="aag-afi10_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
          <para>For simplicity, this case study ignores income tax consequences.</para>
        </footnote>
      </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi10_description_of_the_transaction" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Description of the Transaction</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Transaction</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi10_06" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.06</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.06</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">JLM manufactures windows and doors for
residential sale and is a SEC registrant that operates under a fiscal
year-end of December 31. JLM has experienced a tremendous growth rate
during the past 2 years. As a result, it has entered into an expansion
and equipment upgrade project at its plant. In order to keep up with
demands, JLM has increased its workforce by 25%.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi10_07" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.07</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.07</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">On January 1, 20X1, JLM issued a 5-year,
$1 million, BB-rated bond obligation. The interest rate on the bond
obligation was fixed at 8%, payable on a quarterly basis. On February
1, 20X1, to hedge its exposure to changes in LIBOR (that is, the designated
benchmark interest rate risk being hedged), JLM entered into a 5-year
interest rate swap with a notional amount of $1 million to receive
a fixed rate of 8% and pay a variable rate equal to 90-day LIBOR (at
the end of each quarter) plus 2%, payable on a quarterly basis, with
the first payment due March 31, 20X1.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_accounting_for_the_transaction" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Accounting for the Transaction</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">
          Accounting for the Transaction
          <footnote id="aag-afi10_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="shade">
                In August 2017, FASB issued Accounting
Standards Update (ASU) No. 2017-12, , to simplify the application of hedge accounting
by aligning it with an entity’s risk management activities in their
financial statements. For public business entities, the guidance was
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including
interim periods within those fiscal years. For entities other than
public business entities, ASU No. 2017-12 is effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2020, and interim periods within
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021; these effective dates
reflect amendments from ASU No. 2019-10, , which delayed
the effective dates of several major updates in response to feedback
FASB received from stakeholders. Early application is permitted in
any interim period after the date this ASU was issued.
                <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives
and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging
Activities</emphasis>
                <emphasis role="italic">Financial
Instruments — Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic
815), and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates</emphasis>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi10_08" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.08</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.08</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">In order to meet the criteria for hedge
accounting, the hedge must be highly effective. When certain conditions
are met, the entity may assume that an interest rate swap will be
completely effective in hedging benchmark interest rate risk. In that
situation, the entity may elect to use the shortcut method discussed
in paragraphs 102–117 of FASB ASC 815-20-25, thereby avoiding the
need to formally assess hedging effectiveness at inception and on
a continuing basis. In this case study, one of those conditions is
not met because the interest rate swap matures one month later than
the bond obligation.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi10_09" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.09</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.09</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Because the expiration date of the interest
rate swap is different than the maturity date of the debt obligation,
fluctuations in the benchmark interest rate may have varying effects
on the fair values of the bond obligation and interest rate swap.
Accordingly, JLM may not assume that the changes in fair value of
the interest rate swap are, and will continue to be, completely effective
at offsetting the changes in fair value of the bond obligation attributable
to changes in the benchmark interest rate.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi10_10" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.10</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.10</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">JLM assessed hedge effectiveness by comparing
the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap with the portion
of the change in the fair value of the bond obligation attributable
to changes in the benchmark interest rate. The change in the bond
obligation’s fair value attributable to changes in the benchmark interest
rate for a specific period is determined as the difference between
two present value calculations as of the end of the period that exclude
or include, respectively, the effect of the changes in the benchmark
interest rate during the period. The discount rates used for those
present value calculations would be, respectively, the discount rate
equal to the coupon rate for the bond obligation (assuming no changes
in JLM’s creditworthiness) at the inception of the hedge adjusted
(up or down) for changes in the</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          benchmark rate (designated as the interest rate risk being hedged)
from the inception of the hedge to the beginning date of the period
for which the change in fair value is being calculated.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          designated benchmark rate from the inception of the hedge to the
ending date of the period for which the change in fair value is being
calculated.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">
          <emphasis role="shade">Consistent with “Pending
Content” in FASB ASC 815-25-55-55, JLM assessed hedge effectiveness
by comparing the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap
with the portion of the change in the fair value of the bond obligation
attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. The change
in the bond obligation’s fair value attributable to changes in the
benchmark interest rate for a specific period is determined as the
difference between two present value calculations that use the remaining
cash flows as of the end of the period and reflect in the discount
rate the effect of the changes in the benchmark interest rate during
the period.</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi10_11" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.11</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.11</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Both present value calculations are computed
using the estimated future cash flows for the hedged item (which typically
would be its remaining contractual cash flows). Hedge ineffectiveness
will occur if changes in the fair value of the obligation under the
bond attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate do not
equal changes in the fair value of the swap. </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">
          <emphasis role="shade">Consistent with “Pending
Content” in FASB ASC 815-25-55-56, both present value calculations
are computed using the estimated future cash flows for the hedged
item, which would be either its remaining contractual coupon cash
flows or the LIBOR benchmark rate component of the remaining contractual
coupon cash flows determined at hedge inception. Hedge ineffectiveness
will occur if changes in the fair value of the obligation under the
bond attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate do not
equal changes in the fair value of the swap.</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi10_12" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.12</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.12</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Additional facts that impact the accounting
for this transaction include the following:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              The basis adjustments recognized in earnings related
to the bond obligation should be equal to the changes in the fair
value of the bond obligation attributable to changes in the benchmark
interest rate.
              <footnote id="aag-afi10_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
                <para>
                  In calculating the change in the hedged item’s fair value attributable
to changes in the benchmark interest rate, FASB  (ASC) 815-25-35-13 requires that
the estimated cash flows used in calculating fair value be based on
all the contractual cash flows of the entire hedged item.
                  <emphasis>Accounting
Standards Codification</emphasis>
                </para>
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="shade">Consistent with “Pending Content” in
FASB ASC 815-25-35-13, in calculating the change in the hedged item’s
fair value attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate,
the estimated coupon cash flows used in calculating fair value should
be based on either the full contractual coupon cash flows or the benchmark
rate component of the contractual coupon cash flows of the hedged
item determined at hedge inception. FASB ASC 815-25-35-13B addresses
partial-term hedges of interest rate risk. </emphasis>
                </para>
              </footnote>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The interest rate swap was issued at the market rate
on February 1, 20X1; therefore, no cash was exchanged at inception
of the contract, and no entries related to the time value of money
were required.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>All the hedge accounting criteria contained in FASB
ASC 815-20-25 were met. Hedge effectiveness was achieved at the inception
of the contract.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The bond’s 8% stated interest rate is the market rate
on January 1, 20X1, when the bond was issued. The benchmark interest
rate on February 1, 20X1, was 5%. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>During 20X1, the fair values of the interest rate
swap and JLM’s bond obligation (after cash settlements), excluding
current period swap accruals and interest accruals, were as follows:</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>LIBOR plus 2% equaled 8.25% and 8.50% at March 31
and June 30, 20X1, respectively.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <table frame="none" id="aag-afi10_table1" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1.87in"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="0.87in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="0.75in"/>
            <colspec colname="c4" colwidth="0.75in"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">February 1</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">March 31</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">June 30</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Interest rate swap</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para> $ —</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$(20,000)</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$(35,000) </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>JLM bond obligation</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para> 1,005,000</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para> 980,000</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para> 965,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Change in fair value of interest rate swap</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para> $ —</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>(20,000)</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>(15,000)</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Change in fair value of JLM bond obligation</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para> $ —</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>25,000</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>15,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_journal_entries" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Journal Entries</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Journal Entries</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi10_13" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.13</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.13</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The journal entries JLM made are as follows:</para>
        <table frame="none" id="aag-afi10_table2" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="4.36in"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="0.87in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="0.89in"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c3" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">February 1, 20X1</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c3" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>JLM made a memorandum entry documenting the existence of the
hedging relationship. The financial records of JLM were not otherwise
affected as of this date because the interest rate swap was issued
at the market rate; therefore, no cash changed hands.</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c3" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">March 31, 20X1</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Interest expense</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$20,000</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Cash
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$20,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record interest expense on the bond obligation — ($1,000,000
× 8.00%) × 3/12 = $20,000.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Interest expense</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$417</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Cash
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$417</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record the net cash payment on the interest rate swap as
an increase in interest expense — [($1,000,000 × 8%) × 2/12 = $13,333
received] less [($1,000,000 × 8.25%) × 2/12 = $13,750 paid]. </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Unrealized loss on interest rate swap</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$20,000</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Obligation under interest rate swap
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$20,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record the reduction in the fair value of the interest rate
swap as a liability, with an offsetting charge to earnings. </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Bond obligation</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$25,000</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Unrealized gain on bond obligation
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$25,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record the reduction in the fair value of the bond obligation
due to a change in the benchmark interest rate, with an offsetting
credit to earnings.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" nameend="c3" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">June 30, 20X1</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Interest expense</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$20,000</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Cash
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$20,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record interest expense on the bond obligation — ($1,000,000
× 8.00%) × 3/12 = $20,000.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Interest expense</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$1,250</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Cash
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$1,250</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record the net cash payment on the interest rate swap as
an increase in interest expense — [($1,000,000 × 8%) × 3/12 = $20,000
received] less [($1,000,000 × 8.5%) × 3/12 = $21,250 paid].</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Unrealized loss on interest rate swap</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$15,000</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Obligation under interest rate swap
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$15,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record the increase in the fair value of the liability under
the swap agreement, with an offsetting charge to earnings.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Bond obligation</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$15,000</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para/>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Unrealized gain on bond obligation
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$15,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record the reduction in the fair value of the bond obligation
due to a change in the benchmark interest rate, with an offsetting
credit to earnings.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_observations" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Observations</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Observations</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi10_14" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.14</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.14</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">JLM’s fixed-rate bond obligation together
with the interest rate swap it entered into is economically equal
to a variable-rate obligation as a result of entering into the interest
rate swap. For example, interest expense for the quarter ended June
30, 20X1, was $21,250, consisting of $20,000 paid under the bond plus
$1,250 paid under the swap. This equals interest on the bond at the
variable rate of 8.5% ($1,000,000 × 8.5% × 3/12 = $21,250). Due to
the fact that the benchmark interest rate increased during the first
5 months of the hedging relationship, the fair value of the interest
rate swap decreased, resulting in JLM making net interest cash payments
on the settlement dates. </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi10_15" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.15</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.15</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The fair value of the bond obligation
decreased as a result of the increase in the benchmark interest rate.
The decrease in the fair value of the bond created unrealized gain
that was partially offset by the unrealized loss from the decrease
in the fair value of the swap (which resulted in recognizing a liability).
The fair value change in the bond obligation was compared with the
change in the fair value of the interest rate swap to determine hedge
effectiveness (that is, within 80% to 125% of each other). Once determined,
the change in the fair value of the bond obligation attributable to
changes in the benchmark interest rate was recognized in earnings
as an offset to the change in fair value of the interest rate swap.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi10_16" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.16</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.16</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The results were that at March 31 and
June 30, the changes in fair value of the interest rate swap were
highly effective in offsetting the changes in fair value of the bond
obligation attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate.
Furthermore, the hedge ineffectiveness (that is, $5,000 at March 31)
was recognized currently in earnings. </para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_auditing_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Auditing Considerations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Auditing Considerations</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi_description_of_the_entity" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Description of the Entity</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Entity</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi10_17" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.17</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.17</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Key factors in assessing JLM’s control
environment are the following:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>JLM’s management and board of directors instill high
integrity and ethical values throughout all aspects of the entity.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>JLM has in place a corporate compliance program specifically
prohibiting fraud against the entity that states the penalties for
fraud and requires employees to report fraud. In addition, a process
exists to identify high-risk areas of potential fraud exposure for
the entity.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>JLM has in place a quality information system that
provides system-generated information that gives management the ability
to make appropriate decisions in managing and controlling the entity’s
activities and to prepare reliable financial reports.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The board of directors is independent from management
and holds frequent, timely meetings with the CFO, accounting officer,
internal auditors, and external auditors.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Management provides sufficient, timely information
to allow monitoring of management’s financing objectives and strategies
and JLM’s financial position and operating results.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Management consults with the board of directors on
all business risks. Such business risks are accepted only after the
board of directors’ study and approval. The board of directors approves
all transactions that involve derivatives.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>JLM’s organizational structure is appropriate to the
entity’s size and activities and has the ability to provide information
appropriate to manage the entity’s activities. The knowledge and experience
of key managers are appropriate to their responsibilities.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Assignment of responsibility and delegation of authority
are appropriate for the entity, given its size and the nature and
complexity of activities. Authority has been delegated to deal with
organizational goals and objectives, operating functions, and regulatory
requirements, including responsibility for information systems and
authorization for changes.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>JLM’s investing and financing activities are monitored
closely by the board of directors.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Management and the board of directors have a high
commitment to competence when hiring employees. The investing and
financing function is staffed with individuals who are knowledgeable
about accounting for derivatives.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi10_18" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.18</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.18</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Although the volume of derivatives transactions
is low, the entity has established controls over them. Some of JLM’s
key controls include the following:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Overall, controls over financial reporting of derivatives
transactions adequately provide segregation of duties and management
oversight.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>JLM has in place written policies regarding derivatives
transactions that were approved by the board of directors.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The board of directors approves all derivatives transactions. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Controls are in place to ensure that derivatives designated
as hedges meet the criteria for hedge accounting, both at inception
and on an ongoing basis. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>JLM’s CFO prepares an analysis for review by the board
of directors that identifies</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>the objective of the hedge and the strategy for accomplishing
the objective.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the nature of the risk being hedged.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the derivative hedging instrument.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the hedged item.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>how the entity will assess hedge effectiveness. </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>JLM’s investing and financing function maintains proper
segregation of duties among dealing (committing JLM to the transaction),
settlement (initiating cash payments and accepting cash receipts),
and accounting (recording all transactions and the valuation of the
derivative).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The board has approved a list of top-tier investment
brokers that management may utilize for investment services.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>JLM has put in place controls and procedures for the
prevention or detection of errors, including the following:</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>Accounting entries for derivatives transactions are
reviewed by senior management of the investing and financing function
and subject to periodic review by the CFO.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Fair values are obtained from a broker-dealer and
reviewed on a monthly basis.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Adjustments to financial instruments’ general ledger
accounts are reviewed and approved by the controller.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_summary_of_accounting" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Summary of Accounting</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Summary of Accounting</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi10_19" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.19</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.19</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Because no cash is required to enter into
the interest rate swap, no entry is required at its inception. The
swap should subsequently be adjusted to its fair value. Because the
swap is designated as a fair value hedge, the entire change in its
fair value should be recognized in earnings. In addition, changes
in the fair value of the bond obligation due to changes in the benchmark
interest rate should be recognized in earnings. The basis of the bond
obligation should be adjusted accordingly.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_types_of_potential_misstatements" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Types of Potential Misstatements</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Types of Potential Misstatements</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi10_20" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.20</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.20</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The types of potential misstatements are</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>failure to identify the swap.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>failure to properly document the hedge and the expectation
of hedge effectiveness.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the hedge does not remain highly effective on an ongoing
basis so that hedge accounting does not continue to be appropriate.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the assessment of hedge effectiveness is not consistent
with the risk management strategy documented for the particular hedging
relationship.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>JLM does not assess hedge effectiveness for similar
hedging strategies in a similar manner, and such differences are not
documented. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>incorrect determination of the fair value of the swap
and bonds.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>incorrect computation and recording of interest and
accrued interest on the bonds. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>inadequate financial statement presentation and disclosure.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_inherent_risk_factors_to" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for This Transaction
in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for
This Transaction in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi10_21" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.21</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.21</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The inherent risk factors are</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">Based on the preceding factors, the auditor
determines inherent risk to be high.</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>this transaction requires no initial cash outlay;
therefore, detection of the derivative may be difficult (although
it is unlikely that management would attempt to conceal the transaction).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>management does not have a valuation model capable
of valuing the interest rate swap and relies on the broker-dealer
who arranged the transaction for the valuation of the swap.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>credit risk related to the swap is moderate and primarily
related to the risk of nonperformance by the counterparty.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_control_risk" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Control Risk</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Control Risk</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi10_22" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.22</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.22</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Control risk has been assessed as high;
accordingly, a substantive approach will be taken when auditing JLM’s
derivatives transactions. Although JLM has put in place adequate controls
over its derivatives, due to the limited number of derivatives transactions
it has entered into, the auditor deems a substantive approach more
efficient and effective.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_timing_of_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Timing of Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Timing of Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi10_23" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.23</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.23</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Based on the assessment of control risk
as high and JLM’s inexperience in applying FASB ASC 815, the relevant
assertions associated with this transaction will be substantively
tested at year-end. </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_materiality" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Materiality</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Materiality</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi10_24" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.24</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.24</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The transaction is considered material.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_design_of_the_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Design of the Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Design of the Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi10_25" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>10.25</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">10.25</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor defined the following objectives
and related procedures for the audit of assertions about the interest
rate swap:</para>
        <table frame="all" id="aag-afi10_table3" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.81in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="3.14in"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">
                      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Objective </emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">
                      <emphasis role="italic">Procedure</emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>All derivatives JLM has entered into are reported in its statement
of financial position. </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Read minutes of the board of directors for approval
of derivatives transactions.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Confirm at year-end the existence, rights, and obligations
and description of the swap with the broker-dealer. </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Examine broker-dealer’s advice evidencing purchase
or issuance in JLM’s name.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Derivatives transactions are approved in accordance with JLM’s
investment policy.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Read JLM’s investment policy, and compare the interest
rate swap with the policy to determine if the swap’s terms are within
the policy’s guidelines.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Read minutes of the board of directors to determine
if approval to enter into the swap was obtained.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The fair values of the swap and bond are reasonable.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Obtain an understanding, and evaluate the relationship
between the broker-dealer and JLM.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>
                        Obtain an understanding of the methodology behind
the broker-dealer’s valuation. Alternatively, use a valuation consultant
to assist in evaluating the reasonableness of the estimate of fair
value, taking into consideration the requirements of AU-C section
620B, .
                        <emphasis role="italic">Using the Work of an Auditor’s Specialist</emphasis>
                      </para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The designation of the interest rate swap as a hedge meets the
applicable criteria for hedge accounting at inception and ongoing,
including the documentation requirement.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Read the board of directors’ minutes that document
the formal designation of the swap as a hedge of the fair value of
the bond obligation.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Confirm (in the management representation letter)
the designation of the swap as a hedge at the date of inception and
each subsequent measurement date.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>
                        Examine documentation that supports the designation,
documentation, and risk management requirements of FASB  (ASC) 815, .
                        <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
                        <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
                      </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Recompute JLM’s calculation of hedge effectiveness
using the methodology prescribed by management, noting whether the
hedge effectiveness is assessed in a similar manner to other hedging
strategies of JLM.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Read board of directors’ minutes for documentation
of the board’s periodic review of hedging effectiveness.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The journal entries required to record the effect of the interest
rate swap are appropriate.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Review journal entries in relation to supporting documentation,
including the broker-dealer’s advice and cancelled checks for interest
payments made on the bond obligation and interest rate swap.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Presentation is appropriate and disclosure adequate.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Read the financial statements, and compare the presentation
and disclosure with the requirements of FASB ASC 815.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>