<root id="aag-afi1_reconciliations_with_banks_and" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Reconciliations With Banks and Custodians</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Reconciliations With Banks and Custodians</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi1_17" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.17</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.17</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Some components of financial instruments,
such as bonds and shares, may be held in separate depositories. In
addition, most financial instruments result in payments of cash at
some point, and often, these cash flows begin early in the contract’s
life. These cash payments and receipts will pass through an entity’s
bank account. Regular reconciliation of the entity’s records to external
banks’ and custodians’ records enables the entity to ensure that transactions
are properly recorded.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_18" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.18</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.18</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">It should be noted that not all financial
instruments result in a cash flow in the early stages of the contract’s
life or are capable of being recorded with an exchange or a custodian.
When this is the case, reconciliation processes will not identify
an omitted or inaccurately recorded trade, and confirmation controls
are more important. Even when such a cash flow is accurately recorded
in the early stages of an instrument’s life, this does not ensure
that all characteristics or terms of the instrument (for example,
the maturity or an early termination option) have been recorded accurately.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_19" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.19</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.19</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In addition, cash movements may be quite
small in the context of the overall size of the trade or the entity’s
own balance sheet and, therefore, may be difficult to identify. The
value of reconciliations is enhanced when finance or other administrative
and support services staff review entries in all general ledger accounts
to ensure that they are valid and supportable. This process will help
identify if the other side-to-cash entries relating to financial instruments
have not been properly recorded. Reviewing suspense and clearing accounts
is important, regardless of the account balance, because there may
be offsetting reconciling items in the account.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_20" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.20</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.20</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Reconciliation and confirmation controls
may be automated, and if so, adequate IT controls need to be in place
to support them. In particular, controls are needed to ensure that
data is completely and accurately picked up from external sources
(such as banks and custodians) and from the entity’s records and that
it is not tampered with before or during reconciliation. Controls
are also needed to ensure that the criteria on which entries are matched
are sufficiently restrictive to prevent inaccurate clearance of reconciling
items.</para>
  </section>
</root>