<root id="aag-afi7_types_of_potential_misstatements" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Types of Potential Misstatements</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Types of Potential Misstatements</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi7_14" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.14</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.14</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      . During the audit period, BEV reclassified the bond from available
for sale to held to maturity. The accounting for the change in classification
and subsequent amortization may not conform to the requirements of
FASB ASC 320.
      <emphasis role="italic">Improper accounting</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_15" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.15</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.15</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      . The classification of a bond as held
to maturity requires BEV to have both the intent and ability to hold
the bond to maturity. BEV may have reclassified the bond in the absence
of a positive intent to hold it until maturity and the ability to
do so.
      <emphasis role="italic">Improper change
in classification</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_16" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.16</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.16</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      . The determination of fair value at the date
of reclassification may not conform with the guidance in FASB ASC
320, including the guidance on evaluating other-than-temporary impairments.
      <emphasis role="italic">Improper determination
of fair value</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      <emphasis role="shade">
        . The
determination of fair value at the date of reclassification may not
conform with the guidance in FASB ASC 320 and FASB ASC 326-20.
        <emphasis role="italic">Improper determination of fair value</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_17" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.17</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.17</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      . The bond may not exist or be owned by BEV at
the date of reclassification.
      <emphasis role="italic">Existence and
ownership</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_18" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>7.18</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">7.18</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      . BEV’s financial statement may not comply with
the presentation and disclosure requirements in FASB ASC 320 related
to reclassification of the bond.
      <emphasis role="italic">Presentation and
disclosure</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
</root>