<root id="aag-afi3_authorization" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Authorization</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Authorization</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi3_28" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.28</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.28</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Authorization can affect the financial
statement assertions both directly and indirectly. For example, even
if a transaction is executed outside an entity’s policies, it nonetheless
may be recorded and accounted for accurately. However, unauthorized
transactions could significantly increase risk to the entity, thereby
significantly increasing the risk of material misstatement because
they would be undertaken outside the system of internal control. To
mitigate this risk, an entity will often establish a clear policy
regarding what transactions can be traded by whom, and adherence to
this policy will then be monitored by an entity’s administrative and
support services. Monitoring trading activities of individuals (for
example, by reviewing unusually high volumes or significant gains
or losses incurred) will assist management in ensuring compliance
with the entity’s policies, including the authorization of new types
of transactions, and evaluating whether fraud has occurred.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_29" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.29</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.29</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The function of an entity’s deal initiation
records is to identify clearly the nature and purpose of individual
transactions and the rights and obligations arising under each financial
instrument contract, including the enforceability of the contracts.
In addition to the basic financial information, such as a notional
amount, complete and accurate records, at a minimum, typically include
the</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      identity of the dealer.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        a.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      identity of the person recording the transaction (if not the dealer),
when the transaction was initiated (including the date and time of
the transaction), and how it was recorded in the entity’s information
systems.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        b.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      nature and purpose of the transaction, including whether it is intended
to hedge an underlying commercial exposure.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        c.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
</root>