<root id="aag-afi7_auditing_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Auditing Considerations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Auditing Considerations</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para>
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update 7-1 : Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting
Estimates, and Related Disclosures
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In July
2020, the AICPA issued , , which supersedes AU-C section 540,  and amends the following AU-C sections:
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">Statement
on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 143</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
        <para>
          All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
          <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">
            <emphasis role="italic">Professional Standards</emphasis>
          </olink>
        </para>
      </footnote>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  (AU-C sec. 200)
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  (AU-C sec.
230)
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  (AU-C sec. 240)
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_240">Section 240</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement
Audit</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  (AU-C sec. 260)
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_260">Section 260</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication With Those
Charged With Governance</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  (AU-C sec. 501)
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  (AU-C
sec. 580)
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_580">Section 580</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  (AU-C sec. 700)
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial
Statements</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  (AU-C sec. 701)
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">Section 701</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Key Audit Matters in the
Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
       addresses the auditor’s responsibilities relating
to accounting estimates, including fair value accounting estimates
and related disclosures, in an audit of financial statements. This
SAS is effective for audits of financial statements for periods ending
on or after December 15, 2023. A link to the final SAS and other resources
can be found on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org.
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <section id="aag-afi7_description_of_the_entity" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Description of the Entity</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Entity</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi7_12" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.12</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.12</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">BEV manufactures parts for high-performance
bicycles. Recently, BEV hired a new controller who came to the entity
with five years of experience in public accounting. During the years
of BEV’s growth, the owners of the entity became less involved with
the daily operations of the business, and the reliability of controls
suffered. One of the first tasks of the new controller was to design
and implement a more formal system of internal control that emphasized
segregation of duties and strong oversight and monitoring of all accounting
functions by supervisors. Included in this formal system is the requirement
that one of BEV’s owners personally review the month-end investment
statements sent by the broker-dealer who holds and services the bond.
These documents are then sent to the accounting department for entry
into the accounting system. Based largely on the improvements made
by the new controller, the auditor determined that BEV’s control environment
is well-designed and capable of mitigating control risk.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_summary_of_accounting" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Summary of Accounting</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Summary of Accounting</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi7_13" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.13</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.13</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        At the date of reclassification from available
for sale to held to maturity, BEV should reduce the carrying amount
of the bond to its ,
as defined by FASB ASC 820, , through a charge to other comprehensive income and a credit to
the carrying amount of the bond. The unrealized loss at that date
should be amortized over the remaining life of the bond as a discount,
thereby increasing the carrying amount of the bond over the remaining
life of the bond so that it equals the bond’s face amount when the
bond matures. The loss charged to other comprehensive income should
continue to be reported in accumulated other comprehensive income
but amortized over the remaining life of the bond through credits
to other comprehensive income in amounts equal to the discount amortization.
As a result of this accounting, each year, BEV will report in earnings
interest at the bond’s 6% stated rate and other comprehensive income
equal to the discount amortization.
        <emphasis role="italic">fair value</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Fair Value Measurement</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_types_of_potential_misstatements" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Types of Potential Misstatements</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Types of Potential Misstatements</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi7_14" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.14</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.14</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        . During the audit period, BEV reclassified the bond from available
for sale to held to maturity. The accounting for the change in classification
and subsequent amortization may not conform to the requirements of
FASB ASC 320.
        <emphasis role="italic">Improper accounting</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_15" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.15</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.15</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        . The classification of a bond as held
to maturity requires BEV to have both the intent and ability to hold
the bond to maturity. BEV may have reclassified the bond in the absence
of a positive intent to hold it until maturity and the ability to
do so.
        <emphasis role="italic">Improper change
in classification</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_16" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.16</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.16</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        . The determination of fair value at the date
of reclassification may not conform with the guidance in FASB ASC
320, including the guidance on evaluating other-than-temporary impairments.
        <emphasis role="italic">Improper determination
of fair value</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        <emphasis role="shade">
          . The
determination of fair value at the date of reclassification may not
conform with the guidance in FASB ASC 320 and FASB ASC 326-20.
          <emphasis role="italic">Improper determination of fair value</emphasis>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_17" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.17</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.17</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        . The bond may not exist or be owned by BEV at
the date of reclassification.
        <emphasis role="italic">Existence and
ownership</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_18" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.18</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.18</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        . BEV’s financial statement may not comply with
the presentation and disclosure requirements in FASB ASC 320 related
to reclassification of the bond.
        <emphasis role="italic">Presentation and
disclosure</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_inherent_risk_factors_to" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for This Transaction
in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatements</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for
This Transaction in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatements</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi7_19" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.19</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.19</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Because the classification of the bond
had been changed from available for sale to held to maturity, the
auditor assessed inherent risk to be high based on the following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . The accounting personnel’s lack of experience with changes in bond
classifications and the special accounting considerations increase
the inherent risk of the change being accounted for incorrectly.
            <emphasis role="italic">The entity’s experience</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . During the audit period, management changed its objective in holding
the bond. Previously, management intended it to be available for sale,
but now, its stated objective was to hold the security to its maturity. 
            <emphasis role="italic">Management’s objectives</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_control_risk" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Control Risk</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Control Risk</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi7_20" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.20</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.20</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        BEV uses a broker-dealer to hold and service
its financial instruments, including the investment in the bond. However,
the fact that the entity uses a service organization to process some
of its financial instrument transactions does not, in and of itself,
require the auditor to obtain information about the broker-dealer’s
controls. AU-C section 315B, , addresses the auditor’s requirement to obtain
an understanding of the entity and its environment as part of performing
an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Paragraph .A54 of AU-C section 315B states that an entity’s
use of IT may affect any of the five components of internal control
relevant to the achievement of the entity’s financial reporting, operations,
or compliance objectives and its operating units or business functions.
This understanding should be sufficient for the auditor to
        <emphasis role="italic">Understanding
the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks of Material
Misstatement</emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
          <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statements on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>identify the types of potential misstatement of the
assertions.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>consider factors that affect the risk that the potential
misstatements would be material to the financial statements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>design substantive tests.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_21" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.21</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.21</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The types of potential material misstatements
relating to BEV’s investment in the bond relate primarily to the change
in classification from available for sale to held to maturity, which
is a risk that will not be addressed by the controls at the broker-dealer.
BEV maintains all the information necessary to perform substantive
procedures on investments. Accordingly, the auditor does not have
to obtain an understanding of controls in operation at the broker-dealer
in order to plan the audit.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi7_22" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.22</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.22</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Because the purchase and subsequent reclassification
of the bond was considered to be an isolated transaction, control
risk was assessed as high.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_timing_of_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Timing of Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Timing of Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi7_23" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.23</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.23</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">All relevant assertions associated with
this transaction will be substantively tested at year-end. </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi7_materiality" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Materiality</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Materiality</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi7_24" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.24</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.24</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The transaction is considered material.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_design_of_substantive_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Design of Substantive Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Design of Substantive Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi7_25" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>7.25</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">7.25</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor defined the following objectives
and related procedures for the audit of assertions about the transaction:</para>
      <table frame="all" id="aag-afi7_table4" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.97in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="2.99in"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="bold">
                    <emphasis role="italic">Audit Objective</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="bold">
                    <emphasis role="italic">Procedure</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The bond exists and is owned by BEV.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Confirm existence and ownership with the broker-dealer.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Management authorized the change in classification of the bond
from available for sale to held to maturity; this includes considerations
relative to the securities’ eligibility to be classified as held to
maturity.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Review minutes of meetings or any applicable internal
memorandums of relevant groups for evidence that management authorized
the change.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Absent written evidence in the minutes or other documentation,
perform other procedures to determine whether the change was authorized,
such as inquiry or obtaining a representation in the management representation
letter.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The bond’s fair value at the date its classification was changed
was properly determined.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Test the fair value of the bond at the date of reclassification
by agreeing market price to independent published sources.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Review any notes from periodic pricing meetings with
the traders or management of the entity to determine whether steps
were taken to properly value the bond.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The difference between the bond’s fair value and its face amount
at the date the bond’s classification was changed was properly recorded
and amortized.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Recalculate the difference between the bond’s face
amount and fair value at the date the bond’s classification was changed
to held to maturity. Confirm the assumptions used in the calculation,
including the notional amount and rate of the bond, because these
inputs are used to determine the face amount and fair value.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Recalculate the amortization of the resulting discount. </para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Management has the positive intent and ability to hold the bond
to maturity.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Review management’s cash flow forecasts, or perform
other procedures considered necessary to assess BEV’s ability to hold
the security to maturity.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>
                      Obtain a representation in the management representation
letter confirming management’s intent to hold the security to maturity.
                      <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
                        <para>
                          A written representation of management’s intent and ability
with regard to held-to-maturity securities does not constitute sufficient
appropriate audit evidence.  of this guide provide additional guidance on the
types of auditing procedures the auditor might perform to corroborate
management’s stated intent and ability to realize that intent.
                          <olink targetptr="aag-afi6_07">Paragraphs
6.07–.08</olink>
                        </para>
                      </footnote>
                    </para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Presentation and disclosure are appropriate.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>
                      Read the financial statements and compare the presentation
and disclosure with the requirements of FASB  320, .
                      <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
                      <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Debt and Equity Securities</emphasis>
                    </para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>