<root id="aag-afi1_purpose_and_risks_of" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Purpose and Risks of Using Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Purpose and Risks of Using Financial
Instruments</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi1_04" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.04</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.04</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Financial instruments may be used for</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>hedging purposes (for example, to change an existing
risk profile to which an entity is exposed). This includes</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
      <listitem>
        <para>the forward purchase or sale of currency to fix a
future exchange rate.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>converting future interest rates to fixed rates or
floating rates through the use of swaps.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the purchase of option contracts to provide an entity
with protection against a particular price movement, including contracts
that may contain embedded derivatives.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>trading purposes (for example, to enable an entity
to take a risk position to benefit from short-term market movements).</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>investment purposes (for example, to enable an entity
to benefit from long-term investment returns).</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_05" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.05</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.05</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The use of financial instruments can reduce
exposures to certain business risks (for example, changes in exchange
rates, interest rates, and commodity prices or a combination of those
risks). On the other hand, the inherent complexities of some financial
instruments also may result in increased risk.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_06" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.06</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.06</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Business risk and the risk of material misstatement increase when management
and those charged with governance
      <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
        <para>
           is defined
in paragraph .04 of AU-C section 315B, .
          <emphasis role="italic">Business risk</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">Understanding
the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks of Material
Misstatement</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para>
          All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>do not fully understand the risks of using financial
instruments and have insufficient skills and experience to manage
those risks.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>do not have the expertise to value them appropriately
in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>do not have sufficient controls in place over financial
instrument activities.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>inappropriately hedge risks or speculate.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_07" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.07</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.07</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Management’s failure to fully understand
the risks inherent in a financial instrument can have a direct effect
on management’s ability to manage these risks appropriately and may
ultimately threaten the viability of the entity.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_08" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.08</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.08</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The following are principal types of risk
applicable to financial instruments. This list is not meant to be
exhaustive, and different terminology may be used to describe these
risks or classify the components of individual risks:</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        is the
risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial
loss to another party by failing to discharge an obligation, and it
is often associated with default. Credit risk includes counterparty
risk and settlement risk, which are defined as follows:
      <emphasis role="bold">Credit (or counterparty)
risk. </emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Credit risk</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
        <para>
          See the FASB ASC Master Glossary for definitions of  for purposes of a hedged item
in a fair value hedge and a hedged transaction in a cash flow hedge. 
          <emphasis role="italic">credit risk</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        is the risk that
the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will
fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk comprises
currency risk, interest rate risk, and other price risk.
      <emphasis role="bold">Market risk. </emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Market risk</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      Liquidity risk includes the risk of not being able to buy or sell
a financial instrument at an appropriate price in a timely manner
due to a lack of marketability for that financial instrument.
      <emphasis role="bold">Liquidity risk. </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
       Operational risk relates to the specific processing required for
financial instruments. Operational risk may increase as the complexity
of a financial instrument increases, and poor management of operational
risk may increase other types of risk. Operational risk includes the
risk
      <emphasis role="bold">Operational risk.</emphasis>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
      <listitem>
        <para>
          . Connotes the exposure to the aggregate credit risk posed by all
transactions with one counterparty.
          <emphasis role="italic">Counterparty risk</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          . The related exposure that a counterparty may fail to perform under
a contract after the end user has delivered funds or assets according
to its obligations. Settlement risk relates almost solely to over-the-counter
(OTC) contracts (that is, nonexchange-traded instruments). One method
for minimizing settlement risk is to enter into a master netting agreement
that allows the parties to offset all their related payable and receivable
positions at settlement.
          <emphasis role="italic">Settlement risk</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
      <listitem>
        <para>that confirmation and reconciliation controls are
inadequate, resulting in incomplete or inaccurate recording of financial
instruments.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>that inappropriate documentation of transactions and
insufficient monitoring of these transactions exist.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>that transactions are incorrectly recorded, processed,
or risk managed and, therefore, do not reflect the economics of the
overall trade.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>that undue reliance is placed by staff on the accuracy
of valuation techniques without adequate review, and transactions
are, therefore, incorrectly valued, or their risk is improperly measured.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>that the use of financial instruments is not adequately
incorporated into the entity’s risk management policies and procedures.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal
processes and systems or from external events, including the risk
of fraud from both internal and external sources.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>that inadequate or nontimely maintenance of valuation
techniques used to measure financial instruments exist.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>that losses may result from a legal or regulatory
action that invalidates or otherwise precludes performance by the
end user or its counterparty under the terms of the contract or related
netting arrangements (that is, legal risk, which is a component of
operational risk). For example, legal risk could arise from insufficient
or incorrect documentation for the contract, an inability to enforce
a netting arrangement in bankruptcy, adverse changes in tax laws,
or statutes that prohibit entities from investing in certain types
of financial instruments.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_09" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.09</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.09</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Other considerations relevant to risks
of using financial instruments include the risk</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>of fraud that may be increased if, for example, an
employee in a position to perpetrate a financial fraud understands
both the financial instruments and processes for accounting for them,
but management and those charged with governance have a lesser degree
of understanding.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          that master netting arrangements may not be properly reflected in the financial statements.
          <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
            <para>An entity that undertakes a number of financial instrument transactions
with a single counterparty may enter into a master netting arrangement
with that counterparty. Such an agreement provides for a single net
settlement of all financial instruments covered by the agreement in
the event of default of any one contract. See FASB ASC 815-10-45 for
information on offsetting amounts related to derivative instruments. </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>that some financial instruments may change between
being assets or liabilities during their term and that such change
may occur rapidly.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>