<root id="aag-afi4_28" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>4.28</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">4.28</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">
    When an electronic confirmation process
or system is used, the auditor’s consideration of the risks includes
the consideration of risks that the electronic confirmation process
is not secure or is improperly controlled. An electronic confirmation system or process that creates
a secure confirmation environment may mitigate the risks of interception
or alteration. Creating a secure confirmation environment depends
on the process or mechanism used by the auditor and respondent to
minimize the possibility that the results will be compromised because
of interception or alteration of the confirmation. If the auditor
is satisfied that such a system or process is secure and properly
controlled, evidence provided by responses received using the system
or process may be considered reliable. Various means might be used
to validate the source of the electronic information. For example,
the use of encryption, electronic digital signatures, and procedures
to verify website authenticity may improve the security of the electronic
confirmation system or process. If a system or process that facilitates
electronic confirmation between the auditor and respondent is in place,
and the auditor plans to rely on the controls over such a system or
process, an assurance trust services report (for example, Systrust)
or another assurance report on that system or process may assist the
auditor in assessing the design and operating effectiveness of the
electronic and manual controls with respect to that system or process.
Such an assurance report may address the risks described in paragraph
.A13 of AU-C section 505B. If these risks are not adequately addressed
in such a report, the auditor may perform additional procedures to
address those risks. For example, the auditor may determine that it is appropriate
to address such risks by directly contacting the purported sender
(for example, by telephone) to validate the identity of the sender
of the response and to validate that the information received by the
auditor corresponds to what was transmitted by the sender.
    <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
      <para>
        Paragraph .A13 of AU-C section 505B, .
        <emphasis role="italic">External Confirmations</emphasis>
      </para>
    </footnote>
    <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
      <para>Paragraph .A15 of AU-C section 505B.</para>
    </footnote>
  </para>
</root>