<root id="aag-afi3_05" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>3.05</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">3.05</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">
    This chapter provides background information
and examples of controls that may exist in an entity that deals in
a high volume of financial instrument transactions, whether for trading
or investing purposes. The examples are not meant to be exhaustive,
and entities may establish different control environments and processes
depending on their size, the industry in which they operate, and the
extent of their financial instrument transactions. The following four
Technical Questions and Answers (Q&amp;A) sections address internal control:
    <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
      <para>
         is not a source
of established authoritative accounting principles as described in
the FASB , the authoritative source
of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for nongovernmental
entities. This nonauthoritative material is based on selected practice
matters identified by the staff of the AICPA  and various other bodies within the AICPA and has
not been approved, disapproved, or otherwise acted upon by any senior
technical committee of the AICPA. 
        <emphasis role="italic">
          <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tpa">Technical Questions and Answers</olink>
        </emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="superscript">®</emphasis>
        <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/research/technicalhotline.html">Technical
Hotline</ulink>
      </para>
      <para>
        All Q&amp;A sections can be found in .
        <tab/>
        <emphasis role="italic">
          <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tpa">Technical Questions and Answers</olink>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </footnote>
  </para>
  <table frame="all" print-only-role="ps_narrative_normal" id="aag-afi3_table1" role="ps_table_center">
    <tgroup align="left" cols="2">
      <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2.5in"/>
      <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="4in"/>
      <tbody>
        <row valign="top">
          <entry>
            <para>
              , “Obtaining an Understanding of Business Processes Relevant to Financial
Reporting and Communication”
              <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_17">8200.17</olink>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry>
            <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses whether auditors are required
to obtain an understanding of business processes relevant to financial
reporting and communication in every audit engagement.</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row valign="top">
          <entry>
            <para>
              , “Obtaining an Understanding of Internal Control Relevant to the
Audit”
              <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_18">8200.18</olink>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry>
            <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses whether an understanding of internal
control relevant to the audit should encompass more than control activities. </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row valign="top">
          <entry>
            <para>
              , “Obtaining an Understanding of the Controls Relevant to the Audit”
              <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_19">8200.19</olink>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry>
            <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses whether an understanding of controls
relevant to the audit requires that the auditor evaluate the design
of controls relevant to the audit and determine whether they have
been implemented every year. </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row valign="top">
          <entry>
            <para>
              , “Control Activities That Are Always Relevant to the Audit”
              <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_20">8200.20</olink>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry>
            <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses the control activities that are
always considered to be relevant in every audit. </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row valign="top">
          <entry>
            <para>
              , “Control Activities That May Be Relevant to the Audit”
              <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_21">8200.21</olink>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry>
            <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses the control activities that may
vary from audit engagement to audit engagement and may be relevant
to the audit (based on the auditor’s judgment).</para>
          </entry>
        </row>
      </tbody>
    </tgroup>
  </table>
</root>