<root id="aag-afi1_27" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>1.27</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">1.27</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">Certain financial reporting frameworks
may require or permit the entity to adjust for measurement uncertainties
in order to adjust for risks that a market participant would make
in the pricing to take account of the uncertainties of the risks associated
with the pricing or cash flows of the financial instrument. Some examples
are as follows:</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    Adjustments are not appropriate if they adjust
the measurement and valuation of the financial instrument away from , as defined by the applicable
financial reporting framework (for example, for conservatism).
    <emphasis role="italic">fair value</emphasis>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Model adjustments. Some models may have a known deficiency,
or the result of calibration may highlight the deficiency for the
fair value measurement in accordance with the financial reporting
framework.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Credit-risk adjustments. Some models do not take into
account credit risk, including counterparty risk or own credit risk.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Liquidity adjustments. Some models calculate a midmarket
price, even though the financial reporting framework may require use
of a liquidity-adjusted amount, such as a bid-offer spread. Another,
more judgmental liquidity adjustment recognizes that some financial
instruments are illiquid, which affects the valuation.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Other risk adjustments. A value measured using a model
that does not take into account all other factors that market participants
would consider in pricing the financial instrument may not represent
fair value on the measurement date and, therefore, may need to be
adjusted separately to comply with the applicable financial reporting
framework.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>