<root id="aag-afi11" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Chapter 11 — Case Study of the Use of a Foreign Currency
Put Option to Hedge a Forecasted Sale Denominated in a Foreign Currency</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Chapter 11</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">Case Study of the Use of a Foreign
Currency Put Option to Hedge a Forecasted Sale Denominated in a Foreign
Currency</subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box_shade">
    <para>
      <emphasis role="italic">Gray
shaded text in this chapter reflects guidance issued but not yet effective
as of the date of this guide, September 1, 2020, but becoming effective
on or prior to December 31, 2020, exclusive of any option to early
adopt ahead of the mandatory effective date. Unless otherwise indicated,
all unshaded text reflects guidance that was already effective as
of the date of this guide.</emphasis>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <section id="aag-afi11_01" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.01</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.01</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In this case study, the entity has forecasted
a foreign currency-denominated sale during the upcoming period and
is exposed to the risk that the foreign currency exchange rate will
change by the time the sale occurs. To manage this risk, the entity
enters into a foreign currency cash flow hedge using a foreign currency
put option.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_02" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.02</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.02</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">By purchasing the put option, the entity
has the right to sell foreign currency to the writer at the spot price,
which, in this case study, is the current exchange rate. To obtain
this right, the entity pays the writer a premium.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_03" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.03</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.03</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The most fundamental characteristic of
every option is the uneven allocation of risk and reward. The holder
of the option (the entity, in this case study) receives a larger potential
gain than it does risk of loss. In this case study, the entity’s profits
on the option increase as the value of the foreign currency falls
relative to the functional currency (U.S. dollars). However, if the
value of the foreign currency rises relative to the functional currency,
the entity simply will not exercise its option and can lose no more
than the option premium it paid the writer.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_04" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.04</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.04</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The value of an option during its life
has two components: the intrinsic value and time value. The term  is defined in the FASB ASC
glossary as the amount by which fair value of the underlying stock
exceeds the exercise price of an option (or the difference between
the underlying spot price and option exercise price, which would be
the strike rate, in this case study) if that difference is positive
for the option holder. Intrinsic value is the net amount that would
be realized upon immediate exercise of the option and sale of the
underlying instrument (foreign currency, in this case study), and
it can never be negative for the option holder.
      <emphasis role="italic">intrinsic value</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_05" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.05</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.05</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
       is the excess of the total fair value of the option over its intrinsic
value. Time value represents the premium that a rational investor
would pay for an option based on the likelihood that, and degree to
which, the fair value of the underlying stock may exceed the exercise
price of the option before the option expires. Time value can never
be negative for the holder and only decreases to zero when the option
reaches its expiration date.
      <emphasis role="italic">Time value</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_06" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>11.06</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">11.06</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The "" section illustrates the accounting for the cash flow hedge of a
forecasted foreign currency-denominated transaction, including the
requirement that the forecasted transaction be probable, and illustrates
an audit approach when control risk is assessed as low or moderate
for certain assertions.
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi11_accounting_considerations">Accounting Considerations</olink>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_accounting_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Accounting Considerations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">
        Accounting Considerations
        <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
          <para>For simplicity, this case study ignores income tax consequences.</para>
        </footnote>
        <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
          <para>
            <emphasis role="shade">
              FASB Accounting Standards Update (ASU)
No. 2017-12, , issued in August 2017, is effective for fiscal years of public
business entities beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim
periods within those fiscal years. For all other entities, FASB ASU
No. 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2019, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2020. Early application is permitted in any interim period
after issuance of the ASU.
              <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging (Topic
815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities</emphasis>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para>
            <emphasis role="shade">
              FASB ASU No. 2017-12 better aligns
an entity's risk management activities and financial reporting for
hedging relationships through changes to both the designation and
measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the
presentation of hedge results. To meet that objective, the amendments
expand and refine hedge accounting for both nonfinancial and financial
risk components and align the recognition and presentation of the
effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial
statements.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para>
            <emphasis role="shade">
              The amendments in this ASU also
make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of
hedge accounting guidance and ease the administrative burden of hedge
documentation requirements and assessing hedge effectiveness.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para>
            <emphasis role="shade">
              Readers are encouraged to consult
the full text of this ASU on FASB’s website at .
              <tab/>
              <ulink url="http://www.fasb.org">www.fasb.org</ulink>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi11_description_of_the_transaction" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Description of the Transaction</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Transaction</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi11_07" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.07</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.07</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Austin-Jhanes is a U.S. manufacturing
(and reporting) entity with sales to foreign purchasers. Its forecasted
sales are denominated in foreign currency but do not represent firm
commitments. As of September 30, 20X1, Austin-Jhanes forecasts that
a specific foreign currency sale of FC 10 million will occur on March
31, 20X2. At the current spot rate of 2 FC/1 U.S. $, this expected
sale equals $5 million. Austin-Jhanes’ historical experience with
the foreign customer for the forecasted sale indicates the sale is
probable. Management is concerned that between September 30, 20X1,
and March 31, 20X2, the foreign currency will weaken relative to the
dollar.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_08" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.08</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.08</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Pursuant to its foreign exchange risk-management
policy, Austin-Jhanes manages its currency risk by purchasing a foreign
currency put option. It considers this transaction to be a cash flow
hedge of a foreign currency-denominated transaction that is in accordance
with FASB ASC 815, , subtopics 815−20, “Hedging — General,” and 815−30, “Cash Flow Hedges.”
The terms of the purchased option are as follows:
          <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
        </para>
        <table frame="none" id="aag-afi11_table1" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1.5in"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="1.5in"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Contract amount</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>FC 10,000,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Expiration date</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>March 31, 20X2</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Strike exchange rate (that is, the contract rate)</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>2 FC/1 U.S. $</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Spot exchange rate</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>2 FC/1 U.S. $</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Premium</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$20,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_09" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.09</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.09</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The option is purchased at the money (that
is, at the spot rate). Therefore, the premium on September 30, 20X1,
reflects the option’s time value only. The option is designated as
a hedge of the forecasted sale, and management expects that at the
hedge’s inception and through the period until the forecasted sale,
the hedge will be highly effective. Accordingly, management expects
that cash flows received on the exercised option will offset foreign
exchange losses on the cash sale, thereby assuring net U.S. dollar
receipts of $5 million (excluding the put option premium) on March
31, 20X2.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_10" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.10</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.10</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Austin-Jhanes decides to assess effectiveness
on the basis of the option’s  that it defines as the value of the option that reflects the positive
difference between the spot exchange rate and strike exchange rate.
Because changes in the time value of the option have been excluded
from the assessment of the hedge’s effectiveness, changes in these
amounts will be included in earnings during the periods they occur.
          <emphasis role="italic">intrinsic value</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_11" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.11</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.11</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">During the period, the foreign currency
weakened relative to the dollar. The spot rates for calculating the
fair value of the option are as follows:</para>
        <table frame="none" id="aag-afi11_table2" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.03in"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="1.13in"/>
            <colspec colname="c4" colwidth="1.00in"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Contract Rate</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Spot Rate</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>September 30, 20X1</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>2.00</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>2.00</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>December 31, 20X1</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>2.00</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>2.10</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>March 31, 20X2</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>2.00</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>2.30</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_12" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.12</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.12</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The fair value, intrinsic value, and time
value of the put option are as follows:</para>
        <table frame="none" id="aag-afi11_table3" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1.99in"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="1.00in"/>
            <colspec colname="c4" colwidth="1.18in"/>
            <colspec colname="c6" colwidth="1.00in"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">(A)</emphasis>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Fair Value</emphasis>
                    <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
                      <para>
                        The fair value may be based on observable prices, recent transactions,
third-party pricing services, broker or dealer quotes, or models prepared
by management or management’s specialists. See additional guidance
on techniques that management may use to value financial instruments
in  of this
guide.
                        <olink targetptr="aag-afi1_33">paragraphs 1.33–.55</olink>
                      </para>
                    </footnote>
                    <newline/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">(B)</emphasis>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Intrinsic Value</emphasis>
                    <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
                      <para>Intrinsic value is computed based on the changes in spot rates
as compared with the strike rate.</para>
                    </footnote>
                    <newline/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">(A)–(B)</emphasis>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Time Value</emphasis>
                    <newline/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>September 30, 20X1</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$20,000</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$ —</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$20,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>December 31, 20X1</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>248,095</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    238,095
                    <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
                      <para>Foreign currency [FC] 10,000,000 ÷ 2.00 = $5,000,000) less (FC
10,000,000 ÷ 2.10 = $4,761,905) = $238,095.</para>
                    </footnote>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>10,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>March 31, 20X2</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>652,174</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    652,174
                    <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
                      <para>(FC 10,000,000 ÷ 2.00 = $5,000,000) less (FC 10,000,000 ÷ 2.30
= $4,347,826) = $652,174. The increase in intrinsic value is $414,079
($652,174 less $238,095).</para>
                    </footnote>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>—</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_13" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.13</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.13</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Management used that information to prepare
a hedge-effective analysis as follows:</para>
        <table frame="none" id="aag-afi11_table4" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="7" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="0.82in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.37in"/>
            <colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="0.79in"/>
            <colspec colname="c5" colwidth="1.11in"/>
            <colspec colname="COLSPEC1" colwidth="1.11in"/>
            <colspec colname="c7" colwidth="0.50in"/>
            <colspec colname="c9" colwidth="0.50in"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Date</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Cumulative Change in the Option’s Intrinsic
Value</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Cumulative Change in Expected Cash Flows
Based on Changes in the FC Spot Rate</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" nameend="c9" namest="c7" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Effectiveness Ratio</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">For the Period</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Cumulative</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>12/31/X1</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$238,095</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$(238,095)</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>1.00</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>1.00</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>3/31/X2</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>652,174</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>(652,174)</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>1.00</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>1.00</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry nameend="c9" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Austin-Jhanes has determined that the hedging relationship between
the option contract and forecasted sales proceeds is highly effective
in achieving the offset in changes of cash flows due to changes in
foreign currency exchange rates. Management has formally documented
the hedging relationship, as well as its objectives for entering into
the hedge.</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_analysis" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Analysis</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Analysis</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi11_14" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.14</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.14</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Austin-Jhanes’ forecasted sale on March
31, 20X2, is considered to be a forecasted transaction. A derivative
that hedges the foreign currency exposure to the variability of cash
flows associated with a forecasted transaction is a , provided
that it meets the eligibility requirements of FASB ASC 815-30. The
use of an option contract to offset a loss qualifies for cash flow
hedge accounting, provided that it is highly effective (as described
in paragraphs 38–41 of FASB ASC 815-20-25). 
          <emphasis role="italic">foreign currency cash flow hedge</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_15" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.15</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.15</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Among other criteria, FASB ASC 815-20-25-15(b)
requires that the forecasted transaction (in this case, the foreign
currency-denominated sale) be , as the term is used in FASB ASC 450, . The mere intent of management is not sufficient support for the
conclusion that the forecasted transaction is probable. Rather, the
transaction’s probability should be supported by observable facts
and the attendant circumstances, such as the following:
          <emphasis role="italic">probable</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">Contingencies</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">Additionally, the length of time until a
forecasted transaction is expected to occur and the quantity of the
forecasted transaction that is expected to occur are considerations
in determining probability. Austin-Jhanes has a history of foreign
sales that are similar to the one it is hedging. The forecasted sale
is imminent and expected to take place in six months, on March 31,
20X2. The management of Austin-Jhanes believes its assessment of probability
is supportable.</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>The frequency of similar past transactions</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The financial and operational ability of the entity
to carry out the transaction</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The extent of loss that could result if the transaction
does not occur</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The likelihood that transactions with substantially
different characteristics might be used to achieve the same business
purposes</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_16" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.16</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.16</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Further, the forecasted transaction must
continue to be probable throughout the period covered by the hedge.
FASB ASC 815-30-40-1(a) states that the entity is required to discontinue
prospectively hedge accounting if the transaction fails to meet any
of the hedge accounting criteria stated in FASB ASC 815-30-25, including
the requirement that the forecasted transaction be probable.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_17" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.17</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.17</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Management has elected to measure effectiveness
based on changes in the intrinsic value of the option contract, as
permitted by FASB ASC 815-20-25-82.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_18" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.18</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.18</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Austin-Jhanes should report the fair value
of the option in its statement of financial position. Changes in the
time value of the option should be recorded currently in earnings.  is considered to be the excess
of the fair value of the option over its intrinsic value. Changes
in the option’s intrinsic value, to the extent it is effective as
a hedge, should be recorded in other comprehensive income. That is,
the amount in other comprehensive income should be brought to a balance
equal to the lesser of the cumulative
          <emphasis role="italic">Time value</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">Any additional change in the intrinsic value
of the option should be recorded in earnings. The balance in accumulated
other comprehensive income should be reclassified to earnings at March
31, 20X2: the date of the sale.</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">
          <emphasis role="shade">
            Austin-Jhanes should
report the fair value of the option in its statement of financial
position. Changes in the time value of the option should be recorded
currently in earnings.  is considered to be the excess of the fair value of the option over
its intrinsic value. “Pending content” in FASB ASC 815-30-35-3 provides
that when the relationship between the hedged item and hedging instrument
is highly effective at achieving offsetting changes in cash flows
attributable to the hedged risk, an entity should record in other
comprehensive income the entire change in the fair value of the designated
hedging instrument that is included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
More specifically, a qualifying cash flow hedge should be accounted
for as follows:
            <emphasis role="italic">Time value</emphasis>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          <emphasis role="shade">
            An entity’s defined risk management
strategy for a particular hedging relationship may exclude a specific
component of the gain or loss, or related cash flows, on the hedging
derivative from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (as discussed
in paragraphs 81–83B of FASB ASC 815-20-25). That excluded component
of the gain or loss should be recognized in earnings either through
an amortization approach in accordance with FASB ASC 815-20-25-83A
or through a mark-to-market approach in accordance with FASB ASC 815-20-25-83B.
Under either approach, the amount recognized in earnings for an excluded
component should be presented in the same income statement line item
as the earnings effect of the hedged item in accordance with FASB
ASC 815-20-45-1A. For example, if the effectiveness of a hedging relationship
with an option is assessed based on changes in the option’s intrinsic
value, the changes in the option’s time value would be excluded from
the assessment of hedge effectiveness and either may be recognized
in earnings through an amortization approach in accordance with FASB
ASC 815-20-25-83A or currently in earnings in accordance with FASB
ASC 815-20-25-83B.
            <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          <emphasis role="shade">
            Amounts in accumulated other comprehensive
income related to the derivative designated as a hedging instrument
included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness are reclassified
to earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged
forecasted transaction affects earnings in accordance with paragraphs
38–41 of 815-30-35 and presented in the same income statement line
item as the earnings effect of the hedged item in accordance with
FASB ASC 815-20-45-1A. The balance in accumulated other comprehensive
income associated with the hedged transaction should be the cumulative
gain or loss on the derivative instrument from inception of the hedge
less all of the following items: () the derivative instrument’s gains or losses previously reclassified
from accumulated other comprehensive income into earnings pursuant
to paragraphs 38–41 of FASB ASC 815-30-35; () the cumulative amount amortized to earnings related
to excluded components accounted for through an amortization approach
in accordance with paragraph FASB ASC 815-20-25-83A; and () the cumulative change in fair value of
an excluded component for which changes in fair value are recorded
currently in earnings in accordance with paragraph 815-20-25-83B.
            <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">c</emphasis>
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>increase in the intrinsic value of the option (less
any gains and losses on the option that were previously reclassified
from accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>decrease in the expected proceeds of the sale, measured
at the current spot rate, less any gains and losses on the option
that were previously reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive
income into earnings. </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_19" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.19</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.19</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">By entering into the option contract,
Austin-Jhanes is assured of receiving at least $5 million from its
FC 10 million sale, excluding the cost of the option contract. (As
shown in the journal entries that follow, the entity received $5 million,
consisting of $4,347,826 from the sale at the spot rate plus $652,174
from the gain on the option contract.)</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_journal_entries" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Journal Entries</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Journal Entries</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi11_20" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.20</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.20</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The journal entries Austin-Jhanes made
are as follows:</para>
        <table frame="none" id="aag-afi11_table5" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="3.36in"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="0.91in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="0.91in"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">September 30, 20X1</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Foreign currency option</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$20,000</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Cash
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$20,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record the purchased option as an asset.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">December 31, 20X1</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Loss on hedging activity
                    <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
                      <para>
                        <emphasis role="shade">
                          “Pending content” in FASB ASC 815-20-45-1A
provides that, for qualifying fair value and cash flow hedges, an
entity should present both of the following in earnings in the same
income statement line item that is used to present the earnings effect
of the hedged item: () the change
in the fair value of the hedging instrument that is included in the
assessment of hedge effectiveness, and () amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness in
accordance with paragraphs 83A–83B of FASB ASC 815-20-25. 
                          <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
                          <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
                        </emphasis>
                      </para>
                    </footnote>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$10,000</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Foreign currency option
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$10,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record the reduction in the time value of the option through
a charge to earnings.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Foreign currency option</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$238,095</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Other comprehensive income
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$238,095</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record the increase in the option’s intrinsic value through
a credit to other comprehensive income.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">March 31, 20X2</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Loss on hedging activity
                    <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
                      <para>
                        <emphasis role="shade">
                          See .
                          <olink role="footnote" targetptr="aag-afi11_fn7">footnote 7</olink>
                        </emphasis>
                      </para>
                    </footnote>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$10,000</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Foreign currency option
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$10,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record the reduction in the time value of the option through
a charge to earnings.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Foreign currency option</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$414,079</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Other comprehensive income
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$414,079</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record the increase in the intrinsic value of the option
through a credit to other comprehensive income.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Cash</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$4,347,826</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Sales
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$4,347,826</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record the FC 10,000,000 sale at a spot rate of 2.30 FC/1
U.S. $.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Cash</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$652,174</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Foreign currency option
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$652,174</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To record the net cash settlement of the option at its maturity.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Other comprehensive income</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$652,174</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    Other income
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$652,174</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>To transfer the gain on the hedging activity to earnings when
the forecasted transaction affects earnings.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_21" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.21</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.21</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The effects of the transaction on Austin-Jhanes’
statement of financial position are as follows:</para>
        <table frame="none" id="aag-afi11_table6" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.99in"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="0.93in"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>DR (CR)</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c2" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">September 30, 20X1</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Cash</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para> $(20,000)</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Foreign currency option</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para> 20,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c2" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">December 31, 20X1</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Cash</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para> $(20,000)</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Foreign currency option</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para> 248,095</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Accumulated other comprehensive income</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para> (238,095)</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Retained earnings</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para> 10,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c2" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">March 31, 20X2</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Cash</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$4,980,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Retained earnings</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>(4,980,000)</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_22" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.22</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.22</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The effects of the transaction on Austin-Jhanes’
earnings are as follows:</para>
        <table frame="top" id="aag-afi11_table7" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.99in"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="1.09in"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para/>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>DR (CR)</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c2" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">Period Ended December 31, 20X1</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Loss on hedging activity resulting from a decrease of the time
value of the option</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$10,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c2" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">Period Ended March 31, 20X2</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Other Income</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>(5,000,000)</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>Loss on hedging activity resulting from a decrease of the time
value of the option</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para> 10,000</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$(4,990,000)</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">Cumulative impact</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$(4,980,000)</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi11_auditing_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Auditing Considerations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Auditing Considerations</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi11_description_of_the_entity" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Description of the Entity</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Entity</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi11_23" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.23</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.23</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Austin-Jhanes is a U.S. manufacturer that
sells its products both domestically and outside the United States.
Its foreign sales are denominated in foreign currencies, although
its functional currency is the U.S. dollar.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_24" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.24</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.24</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The entity uses derivatives regularly
to hedge forecasted foreign currency-denominated sales and purchases
of raw materials. Derivatives are used to a lesser extent for management
of U.S. interest rate risk (for example, converting fixed-rate debt
to floating debt using interest rate swaps). (For purposes of this
case study, only the accounting for the hedging of a forecasted foreign
currency-denominated sale is illustrated.) Derivatives are not used
for investment purposes.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_25" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.25</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.25</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The board of directors has authorized
management of Austin-Jhanes to enter into derivatives for hedging
purposes, and the board receives periodic reports on the intent of
usage, as well as hedge effectiveness.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_26" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.26</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.26</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">All derivatives transactions are executed
through a centralized group of traders that reports to the CFO. The
traders and CFO are very knowledgeable about derivatives. There is
a formal risk management process for derivatives. Austin-Jhanes has
systems in place to monitor the risks being hedged, as well as the
ongoing effectiveness of the hedges. The trading desk executes derivatives
transactions only with counterparties that have been approved after
careful assessment of creditworthiness. There are limits on the credit
exposure to any one counterparty and the extent to which derivatives
can be used to hedge a given exposure.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_27" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.27</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.27</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          . Because of senior management’s integrity and ethical values, its
commitment to competence, its active involvement with the business,
its philosophy and operating style, and the operating structure it
has imposed, Austin-Jhanes’ overall control environment is sound.
          <emphasis role="italic">Control environment</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_28" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.28</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.28</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          . Austin-Jhanes’ CFO conducts weekly meetings with the derivatives
traders to discuss the financial markets generally and to assess the
entity’s position in derivatives, including ongoing hedge effectiveness.
This discussion includes an assessment of the valuation of the derivatives,
as well as the hedged exposures, with particular emphasis on derivatives
and exposures that are not exchange traded or are traded in a broad
interbank market. Sales forecasts, significant forecasted transactions,
and other issues also are discussed in order to plan for required
upcoming hedging activities. The use of new types of derivatives or
the execution of transactions with new counterparties must be discussed
with, and approved by, the CFO.
          <emphasis role="italic">Risk assessment</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_29" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.29</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.29</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          . Control activities include, among other things, the following:
          <emphasis role="italic">Control activities</emphasis>
        </para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Controls have been implemented with respect to control
objectives of</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>completeness of records.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>validity of records.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>restricted access to assets.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              Segregation of the accounting function from trade
authorization and execution. The accounting department is responsible
for cash and derivatives position reconciliations between the accounting
and trading records and broker or counterparty statements. Quarterly,
the controller reviews hedging activities for compliance with the
requirements of FASB ASC 815, .
              <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives
and Hedging</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Data files with such information as counterparty limits
are maintained apart from the traders. The CFO authorizes any changes
to these files. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Austin-Jhanes’ derivatives trading system has an automated
interface with the general ledger and updates the general ledger monthly.
Movements of cash associated with derivatives transactions are authorized
and executed by the treasurer’s department, which is separate from
the derivatives trading group.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Austin-Jhanes’ derivatives trading, sales, accounting,
and other transaction processing activities are highly automated.
There are effective general computer controls at the data centers
that process the entity’s transactions and other information.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_30" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.30</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.30</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          . The CFO and controller receive monthly reports
summarizing derivatives transactions for the period and the positions
at the end of the month. (See the discussion of monitoring controls
for descriptions of this and other reports.)
          <emphasis role="italic">Information and
communication</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_31" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.31</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.31</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The CFO advises the audit committee at
its quarterly meetings on the status of the entity’s derivatives positions,
realized and unrealized gains, compliance with Austin-Jhanes’ derivatives
policy, and any other information that would be useful for the audit
committee in carrying out its responsibilities.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_32" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.32</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.32</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The notes to the entity’s financial statements
contain a description of the entity’s accounting policy for derivatives
and other information required by the applicable financial reporting
framework. </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_33" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.33</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.33</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          . The CFO and controller perform monthly reviews of Austin-Jhanes’
performance in using derivatives, including their effectiveness, and,
in the case of hedges of forecasted transactions, whether the forecasted
transaction continues to meet the requirements for hedge accounting.
          <emphasis role="italic">Monitoring</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi11_34" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.34</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.34</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The CFO and controller receive monthly
reports that provide information that enables them to identify any
material breakdowns in controls, problems with the underlying systems,
or possible material misstatements in the information. The reports
include</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>realized and unrealized gain or loss on derivatives
and hedged exposures, as well as a statistical measurement of correlation
of changes in their values.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>transaction volumes and trends.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>derivatives positions by exchange; counterpart; or
type of instrument, with a comparison with established limits. The
CFO receives notification as limits are approached. The system does
not allow limits to be exceeded without the CFO’s approval.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>information on various reconciliations, including
an aging of reconciling items and resolution status.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_summary_of_accounting" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Summary of Accounting</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Summary of Accounting</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi11_35" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.35</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.35</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Transactions in derivatives are material
to the entity’s financial statements. Austin-Jhanes uses foreign currency
options to hedge forecasted foreign sales. Under FASB ASC 815, it
must record the fair value of the options in its statement of financial
position. Changes in the time value of the options are recorded currently
in earnings. Changes in the options’ intrinsic value, to the extent
they are effective as a hedge, are recorded in other comprehensive
income.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_types_of_potential_misstatements" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Types of Potential Misstatements</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Types of Potential Misstatements</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi11_36" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.36</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.36</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The types of potential misstatements are</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>improper use of hedge accounting under FASB ASC 815,
including the following:</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>Failure to properly designate and document the hedge
at its inception</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Incorrect assessment of hedge effectiveness, including
the improper inclusion or exclusion of the time value of the options</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Improper recording of gains and losses relating to
the transaction (for example, transactions recorded in the improper
amount or wrong accounting period)</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Improper inclusion or exclusion of the time value
of the options in the measure of hedge effectiveness</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>failure to record all derivatives transactions.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>inaccurate determination of fair values of derivatives.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_inherent_risk_factors_to" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for This Transaction
in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for
This Transaction in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi11_37" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.37</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.37</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The following inherent risk factors have
been identified:</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">Based on the preceding factors, the auditor
determines inherent risk to be high.</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Because small amounts of cash are required to enter
into the options, there is an increased inherent risk that the options
will not be identified.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The complexity of accounting for the put options and
hedging activities leads to an increased inherent risk that the transactions
will not be accounted for in conformity with the applicable financial
reporting framework.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The options are not exchange traded, which increases
the inherent risk that valuations will be inappropriate.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_control_risk_and_timing_of" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Control Risk and Timing of Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Control Risk and Timing of Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi11_38" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.38</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.38</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Control risk has been assessed as low
or moderate for certain assertions and as high for others:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              . For the assertions about existence or occurrence, completeness,
and rights and obligations, control risk will be assessed as low or
moderate. This is considered the most effective and efficient approach,
given the controls in place, such as the performance of reconciliations
and monitoring of hedge effectiveness. Tests of details of the recording
of transactions in the general ledger in accordance with FASB ASC
815 and confirmation procedures will take place prior to year-end.
At year-end, various reconciliations, significant activity, and hedge
effectiveness will be reviewed, and the continuance of controls tested
will be reviewed through inquiry and observation. Paragraph .18 of
AU-C section 330B, , states that irrespective of the assessed risk of material
misstatements, the auditor should design and perform substantive procedures
for all relevant assertions related to each material class of transactions,
account balance, and disclosure. Because effective internal controls generally reduce but
do not eliminate risk of material misstatement, tests of controls
reduce but do not eliminate the need for substantive procedures. In addition, analytical procedures alone may not be sufficient
in some cases.
              <emphasis role="italic">Control risk as low or moderate</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures
in Response to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
              <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
                <para>
                  All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </footnote>
              <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn10" label="fn 10" role="number">
                <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
              </footnote>
              <footnote id="aag-afi11_fn11" label="fn 11" role="number">
                <para>
                  Paragraph .A9 of AU-C section 330B, .
                  <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed Risks and Evaluating
the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
                </para>
              </footnote>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              . For the assertions about valuation and presentation and disclosure,
control risk is assessed as high due to the efficiency with which
the valuation of derivatives at year-end can be tested. Also, adequacy
of presentation and disclosure can only be assessed at year-end.
              <emphasis role="italic">Control risk as high</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_materiality" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Materiality</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Materiality</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi11_39" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.39</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.39</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The transaction is considered material.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi11_design_of_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Design of Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Design of Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi11_40" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>11.40</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">11.40</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor defined the following objectives
and related procedures for the audit of assertions about put options
hedging forecasted sales:</para>
        <table frame="all" id="aag-afi11_table8" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.13in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="2.50in"/>
            <colspec colname="c5" colwidth="1.16in"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">
                      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Objective</emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">
                      <emphasis role="italic">Procedures, Including
Those Designed to Gather Audit Evidence About the Operating Effectiveness
of Controls</emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">
                      <emphasis role="italic">Timing</emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The purchase of options was properly authorized.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>For a sample of transactions, review for proper authorization.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Interim date</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" morerows="2" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The foreign currency options exist, and the entity’s rights
and obligations relating to the options have been properly classified
and recorded.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Confirm details of related transactions and derivatives.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>Interim date</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>For selected transactions, trace to proper recording
in the trading system and general ledger, with emphasis on classification
(that is, earnings or other comprehensive income).</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>Interim date</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Review general ledger, trading system, and cash reconciliations.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Year-end</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" morerows="2" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>All options transactions have been captured and recorded in
the entity’s information in the proper accounting period.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Test controls on completeness (for example, independent
review of deal information and reconciliations).</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>Interim date</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry rowsep="0">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>For a sample of transactions, review for recording
in the proper period.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
                <entry rowsep="0">
                  <para>Year-end</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Send confirmations to dealers, and compare options
in the responses to amounts recorded.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Year-end</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" morerows="3" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Hedge accounting has been properly applied.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Review open options contracts, and determine whether
forecasted foreign currency-denominated transactions qualify for hedge
accounting.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>Interim date and year-end</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Test the process by which hedge effectiveness is determined
and monitored.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>Interim date and year-end</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Determine that options transactions continue to qualify
as foreign currency cash flow hedges.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>Interim date and year-end</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Determine that the fair value of the options and changes
in the fair value thereof are properly reported in the financial statements.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Year-end</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" morerows="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>
                    The options and hedged transaction are measured at fair value,
consistent with the requirements of FASB  (ASC) 815, .
                    <emphasis role="italic">Accounting
Standards Codification</emphasis>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>By reference to independent sources, verify the valuation
of the options.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>Year-end</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Test valuation of the hedged transactions.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Year-end</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Presentation and disclosure are appropriate.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Read the financial statements, and compare the presentation
and disclosure with the requirements of FASB ASC 815.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Year-end</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>