<root id="aag-afi4_04" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>4.04</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">4.04</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">
    Assertions used by the auditor to consider
the different types of potential misstatements that may occur fall
into the following three categories and may take the following forms:
    <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
      <para>
        Paragraph .A114 of AU-C section 315B, .
        <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks
of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
      </para>
    </footnote>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    Assertions about classes of transactions and events for the period
under audit, such as the following:
    <emphasis role="italic">
      a.
      <tab/>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    i.. Transactions and events that have been recorded have occurred and
pertain to the entity.
    <tab/>
    <emphasis role="italic">Occurrence</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    ii.. All transactions and events that should have been recorded have
been recorded.
    <tab/>
    <emphasis role="italic">Completeness</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    iii.. Amounts and other data relating to recorded transactions and events
have been recorded appropriately.
    <tab/>
    <emphasis role="italic">Accuracy</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    iv.. Transactions and events have been recorded in the correct accounting
period.
    <tab/>
    <emphasis role="italic">Cutoff</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    v.. Transactions and events have been recorded in the proper accounts.
    <tab/>
    <emphasis role="italic">Classification</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    Assertions about account balances at period-end, such as the following:
    <emphasis role="italic">
      b.
      <tab/>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    i.. Assets, liabilities, and equity interests exist.
    <tab/>
    <emphasis role="italic">Existence</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    ii.. The entity holds or controls the rights
to assets, and liabilities are the obligations of the entity.
    <tab/>
    <emphasis role="italic">Rights
and obligations</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    iii.. All assets, liabilities, and equity interests that should have
been recorded have been recorded.
    <tab/>
    <emphasis role="italic">Completeness</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    iv.. Assets, liabilities, and equity interests
are included in the financial statements at appropriate amounts, and
any resulting valuation or allocation adjustments are appropriately
recorded.
    <tab/>
    <emphasis role="italic">Valuation
and allocation</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    Assertions about presentation and disclosure, such as the following:
    <emphasis role="italic">
      c.
      <tab/>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    i.. Disclosed events, transactions,
and other matters have occurred and pertain to the entity.
    <tab/>
    <emphasis role="italic">Occurrence
and rights and obligations</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    ii.. All disclosures that should have been included in the financial
statements have been included.
    <tab/>
    <emphasis role="italic">Completeness</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    iii.. Financial information is appropriately
presented and described, and disclosures are clearly expressed.
    <tab/>
    <emphasis role="italic">Classification
and understandability</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
    iv.. Financial and other information is disclosed
fairly and in appropriate amounts.
    <tab/>
    <emphasis role="italic">Accuracy
and valuation</emphasis>
  </para>
</root>