<root id="pra-sqcs_1_relevant_ethical_requirements" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Relevant Ethical Requirements</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Relevant Ethical Requirements</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_10" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.10</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.10</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The purpose of the relevant ethical requirements
element of a system of quality control is to provide the firm with
reasonable assurance that the firm and its personnel comply with relevant
ethical requirements when discharging professional responsibilities.
Relevant ethical requirements include independence, integrity, and
objectivity. Establishing and maintaining policies such as the following
assist the firm in obtaining this assurance:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Require that personnel adhere to relevant ethical
requirements such as those in regulations, interpretations, and rules
of the AICPA, state CPA societies, state boards of accountancy, state
statutes, the U.S. Government Accountability Office, and any other
applicable regulators.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Establish procedures to communicate independence requirements
to firm personnel and, where applicable, others subject to them.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Establish procedures to identify and evaluate possible
threats to independence and objectivity, including the familiarity
threat that may be created by using the same senior personnel on an
audit or attest engagement over a long period of time, and to take
appropriate action to eliminate those threats or reduce them to an
acceptable level by applying safeguards.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Require that the firm withdraw from the engagement
if effective safeguards to reduce threats to independence to an acceptable
level cannot be applied.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Require written confirmation, at least annually, of
compliance with the firm’s policies and procedures on independence
from all firm personnel required to be independent by relevant requirements.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          Establish procedures for confirming the independence
of another firm or firm personnel in associated member firms who perform
part of the engagement. This would apply to national firm personnel,
foreign firm personnel, and foreign-associated firms.
          <footnote id="pra-sqcs_1_fn2" label="fn 2">
            <para>
              A  is a firm domiciled outside of the United States and its territories
that is a member of, correspondent with, or similarly associated with
an international firm or international association of firms.
              <emphasis role="italic">foreign-associated firm</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Require the rotation of personnel for audit or attest
engagements where regulatory or other authorities require such rotation
after a specified period.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>