<root id="aag-afi3_19" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>3.19</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">3.19</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">The structure implemented to monitor and
manage exposure to risks should</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    be appropriate and consistent with the entity’s attitude toward risk
as determined by those charged with governance.
    <emphasis role="italic">
      a.
      <tab/>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    specify the approval levels for the authorization of different types
of financial instruments and transactions that may be entered into
and for what purposes. The permitted instruments and approval levels
should reflect the expertise of those involved in financial instrument
activities, demonstrating management’s commitment to competence.
    <emphasis role="italic">
      b.
      <tab/>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    set appropriate limits for the maximum allowable exposure to each
type of risk (including approved counterparties). Levels of allowable
exposure may vary depending on the type of risk or counterparty.
    <emphasis role="italic">
      c.
      <tab/>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    provide for the objective and timely monitoring of the financial
risks and control activities.
    <emphasis role="italic">
      d.
      <tab/>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    provide for the objective and timely reporting of exposures, risks,
and the results of financial instrument activities in managing risk.
    <emphasis role="italic">
      e.
      <tab/>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    evaluate management’s track record for assessing the risks of particular
financial instruments.
    <emphasis role="italic">
      f.
      <tab/>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
</root>