<root id="aag-afi1_third_party_pricing_sources" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Third-Party Pricing Sources</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Third-Party Pricing Sources</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi1_44" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.44</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.44</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Entities may use third-party pricing sources
in order to obtain fair value information. The preparation of an entity’s
financial statements, including the valuation of financial instruments
and the preparation of financial statement disclosures relating to
these instruments, may require expertise that management does not
possess. Entities may not be able to develop appropriate valuation
techniques, including models that may be used in a valuation, and
may use a third-party pricing source to arrive at a valuation or provide
disclosures for the financial statements. This may particularly be
the case in smaller entities or entities that do not engage in a high
volume of financial instrument transactions (for example, nonfinancial
institutions with treasury departments). Even though management has
used a third-party pricing source, management is ultimately responsible
for the valuation and establishing internal control over the valuation
process.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_45" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.45</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.45</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Third-party pricing sources may also be
used because the volume of financial instruments to price over a short
time frame may not be possible by the entity. This is often the case
for traded investment funds that must determine a net asset value
each day. In other cases, management may have its own pricing process
but use third-party pricing sources to corroborate its own valuations.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_46" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.46</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.46</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">For one or more of these reasons, most
entities use third-party pricing sources when valuing financial instruments
either as a primary source or a source of corroboration for their
own valuations. Third-party pricing sources generally fall into the
following categories:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Pricing services, including consensus pricing services</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Brokers providing broker quotes</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>