<root id="aag-afi8" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Chapter 8 — Case Study of How an Entity’s Use of a Service
Organization Affects the Auditor’s Considerations in Auditing Financial
Instruments</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Chapter 8</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">Case Study of How an Entity’s Use
of a Service Organization Affects the Auditor’s Considerations in
Auditing Financial Instruments</subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi8_update_8-1">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
8-1 : Audit Evidence
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In July 2020, the AICPA issued ,  (AU-C sec. 500), which supersedes AU-C section 500A, , and amends the following AU-C sections: 
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 142</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
        <para>
          All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
          <emphasis role="italic">
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_315">Section 315</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment
and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_330">Section 330</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response
to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_530">Section 530</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Sampling</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">Section
540A</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates,
Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
       explains what constitutes audit evidence in an
audit of financial statements and sets out attributes of information
that are taken into account by the auditor when evaluating information
to be used as audit evidence.
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">SAS No. 142</olink>
    </para>
    <para>
      This SAS is effective for
audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after December
15, 2022. A link to the final SAS and other resources can be found
on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi8_update_8-2">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
8-2 : Auditing Accounting
Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related
Disclosures
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In July 2020, the AICPA issued ,  (AU-C sec. 540), which supersedes , , and amends the following AU-C
sections: 
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">AU-C section 540A</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_240">Section 240</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement
Audit</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_260">Section 260</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication With Those
Charged With Governance </emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_580">Section 580</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial
Statements</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">Section 701</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Key Audit Matters in the
Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
       addresses the auditor’s responsibilities relating
to accounting estimates, including fair value accounting estimates
and related disclosures, in an audit of financial statements.
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
    </para>
    <para>
      This SAS is effective for audits of financial statements for
periods ending on or after December 15, 2023. A link to the final
SAS and other resources can be found on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <section id="aag-afi8_01" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>8.01</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">8.01</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">This case study uses the following three
scenarios to illustrate how an entity’s use of a service organization
affects the auditor’s considerations in planning and performing auditing
procedures related to assertions about financial instrument transactions:</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      .
In this scenario, a user entity initiates trades, and a broker-dealer
executes the trades and holds and services financial instruments purchased. 
      <emphasis role="italic">
        a.
        <tab/>
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_a">Scenario A — Directed Investing Arrangement
With One Service Organization: a Broker-Dealer</olink>
      </emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
        <para>Maintaining custody of securities, either in physical or electronic
form, is referred to as holding, and performing ancillary services
is referred to as servicing. Examples of servicing transactions are
collecting dividends and interest and distributing that income to
the entity and receiving notification of corporate actions, such as
stock splits.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      . In this scenario, the user entity has authorized an investment
adviser to initiate trades on its behalf, and a broker-dealer executes
the trades and holds and services the financial instruments purchased. 
      <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
      <tab/>
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_b">
        <emphasis role="italic">Scenario B — Discretionary Investing Arrangement With Two Service
Organizations: an Investment Adviser and a Broker-Dealer</emphasis>
      </olink>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      . In this scenario, a user entity has authorized a broker-dealer
to initiate trades on its behalf and also to execute the trades and
hold and service the financial instruments purchased.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        c.
        <tab/>
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_c">Scenario C — Discretionary Investing
Arrangement With One Service Organization: a Broker-Dealer</olink>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi8_02" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>8.02</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">8.02</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
       present information that is applicable to all the
scenarios, including
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_03">Paragraphs
8.03–.09</olink>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>a description of the user entity.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>a summary of the accounting considerations.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>types of potential misstatements of the user entity’s
assertions about its financial instruments and financial instrument
transactions.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>inherent risk factors the auditor considers in planning
the audit.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the timing of substantive procedures.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_information_that_applies_to" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Information That Applies to All the Scenarios</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Information That Applies to All the
Scenarios</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_description_of_the_entity" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Description of the Entity</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Entity</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_03" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.03</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.03</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The user entity is Lane Components, Inc.
(Lane) that manufactures electrical connectors and distributes them
nationally and internationally, primarily to manufacturers. Several
years ago, it sold a large division and used the proceeds to begin
building a portfolio of equity securities traded on an exchange regulated
by the SEC. Lane views the portfolio as a source of funds for future
business acquisitions and plant expansions.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_summary_of_the_accounting" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Summary of the Accounting Considerations</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Summary of the Accounting Considerations</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_04" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.04</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.04</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Lane accounts for the securities under
FASB  (ASC) 321, , and, accordingly, reports the securities at their fair value, with
unrealized holding gains and losses included in earnings.
          <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Equity Securities</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi8_types_of_potential_misstatements" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Types of Potential Misstatements of the Entity’s Assertions
About Its Financial Instruments and Financial Instrument Transactions</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Types of Potential Misstatements of the
Entity’s Assertions About Its Financial Instruments and Financial
Instrument Transactions</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_05" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.05</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.05</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor identifies the following seven
types of potential misstatements of Lane’s assertions about its financial
instrument transactions:</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          The recorded financial instruments do not exist, and the recorded
financial instrument transactions did not occur.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Lane does not have the rights and obligations associated with ownership
of the recorded financial instruments.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          The entity’s financial instruments and financial instrument transactions
were not recorded.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            c.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          The fair value of the recorded financial instruments was determined
incorrectly.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            d.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Realized and unrealized holding gains and losses are not properly
reported as earnings.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            e.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Disclosures about financial instruments and financial instrument
transactions are not adequate.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            f.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_inherent_risk_factors_the" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Inherent Risk Factors the Auditor Considers in Planning
the Audit</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Inherent Risk Factors the Auditor Considers
in Planning the Audit</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_06" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.06</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.06</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The financial instruments are traded on
an exchange regulated by the SEC, and the features of the instruments,
underlying transactions, and accounting considerations are relatively
straightforward. The auditor assesses inherent risk for all assertions
about financial instruments and financial instrument transactions
as low.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_timing_of_substantive_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Timing of Substantive Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Timing of Substantive Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_07" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.07</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.07</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor decides to perform substantive
procedures for assertions about financial instruments at year-end
because of the relatively small number of financial instruments and
financial instrument transactions.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_materiality_considerations" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Materiality Considerations</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Materiality Considerations</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_08" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.08</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.08</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The carrying amount of the financial instruments
and the realized and unrealized gains and losses on them are material
to Lane’s financial statements, but dividends on the financial instruments
are not material to the financial statements.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi8_09" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.09</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.09</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
           present three scenarios, including the following
information relevant to the particular scenario:
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_10">Paragraphs
8.10–.24</olink>
        </para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>The understanding of controls the auditor needs to
plan the audit</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The auditor’s assessment of control risk</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The auditor’s design of procedures, including, when
applicable, the auditor’s considerations in identifying controls that
reduce control risk and the procedures the auditor uses to gather
audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of those controls</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi8_scenario_a" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Scenario A — Directed Investing Arrangement With One
Service Organization: a Broker-Dealer</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Scenario A — Directed Investing Arrangement
With One Service Organization: a Broker-Dealer</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_10" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.10</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.10</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In this scenario, Lane initiates trades,
and the broker-dealer executes the trades and holds and services the
financial instruments purchased.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_the_understanding_of_processes" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>The Understanding of Processes and Controls the Auditor
Needs to Plan the Audit</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Understanding of Processes and Controls
the Auditor Needs to Plan the Audit</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_11" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.11</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.11</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">In obtaining an understanding of the entity
and its environment, including its internal control , the auditor
determines that</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Lane initiates trades and directs the broker-dealer
to execute them.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Lane maintains records of the trades it directs the
broker-dealer to execute.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the broker-dealer sends a confirmation of each trade
to Lane, which Lane usually receives within three business days.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Lane compares the information in the trade confirmation
with its record of the trade that it directed the broker-dealer to
execute and investigates significant differences.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Lane records the trade in the applicable general ledger
accounts.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>at the end of the year, Lane adjusts the general ledger
accounts for trades it has initiated for which confirmations have
not been received. Information for that adjustment is obtained from
Lane’s record of trades it directed the broker-dealer to execute and
the confirmations of those trades it received subsequent to year-end.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>monthly, the broker-dealer sends Lane a statement
that includes trades, servicing transactions, a description of the
financial instruments held, and the fair value of each of those financial
instruments. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>monthly, Lane compares the information about trades
and the components of its financial instrument portfolio shown in
its accounting records with the broker-dealer’s monthly statement
and investigates significant differences.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>monthly, Lane records servicing transactions and changes
in unrealized holding gains and losses based on information in the
broker-dealer’s monthly statement. Lane compares the broker-dealer
information with its expectations based on published information and
investigates significant differences.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi8_12" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.12</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.12</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Paragraph .05 of AU-C section 402B, , does not apply to services that are limited
to processing an entity’s transactions that are specifically authorized
by the entity, such as the processing of checking account transactions
by a bank or the processing of financial instrument transactions by
a broker (that is, when the user entity retains responsibility for
authorizing the transactions and maintaining the related accountability). Because Lane retains responsibility for authorizing the
transactions and maintaining the related accountability, AU-C section
402B is not applicable in .
          <emphasis role="italic">Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity Using a Service
Organization</emphasis>
          <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
            <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently-issued
SASs.</para>
          </footnote>
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_a">scenario
A</olink>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_the_auditors_assessment_of" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>The Auditor’s Assessment of Control Risk</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Auditor’s Assessment of Control Risk</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_13" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.13</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.13</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor concludes that audit risk
can be reduced to an acceptable level without testing Lane’s controls
over financial instruments and financial instrument transactions.
In addition, the auditor concludes that the number of financial instruments
and financial instrument transactions is small enough that gathering
audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of Lane’s controls
sufficient to support an assessment of control risk as low or moderate
is not likely to significantly improve audit efficiency.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi8_14" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.14</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.14</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">However, if the number of transactions
increases in future years, the auditor will reconsider that conclusion.
For example, the auditor may be able to reduce the number of trades
tested by gathering audit evidence about the operating effectiveness
of Lane’s control that involves comparing the information in the trade
confirmation with its record of the trade it directed the broker-dealer
to execute and investigating significant differences. Audit evidence
might be gathered by inspecting the documentation of the comparisons
of trades, noting the timeliness of the comparison, and inspecting
the documentation of the analysis of results and investigation of
significant differences.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_the_auditors_design_of" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>The Auditor’s Design of Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Auditor’s Design of Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_15" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.15</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.15</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor identifies the objectives
for the audit of assertions about financial instruments and financial
instrument transactions and designs related procedures:</para>
        <table frame="all" id="aag-afi8_table1" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.97in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="2.99in"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">
                      <emphasis role="bold">Audit Objective</emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">
                      <emphasis role="bold">Procedure</emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The recorded financial instruments exist, and Lane has the rights
and obligations associated with ownership of the recorded financial
instruments.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Confirm with the broker-dealer the name of the investee,
the number of shares, whether the shares are pledged, and that Lane
is the owner. </para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The recorded financial instrument transactions occurred.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Inspect supporting documentation, such as trade confirmations
or entries in the broker-dealer’s monthly statements.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>All the financial instruments that Lane owns and all its financial
instrument transactions have been recorded. </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Test management’s reconciliation of the fair value
of the financial instruments at the beginning and end of the year
to the information provided by the broker-dealer.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Perform analytical procedures on dividends and realized
and unrealized gains and losses.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>
                    The financial instruments are recorded at their fair value,
determined by following the requirements of FASB ASC 320, .
                    <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Debt and Equity Securities</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Obtain the per-share price quoted by the exchange
at the balance sheet date and compare the quoted price with the price
that Lane used.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Test the extension of the number of shares at the
quoted price. </para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Realized and unrealized holding gains and losses are properly
reported as earnings or other comprehensive income.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Evaluate management’s considerations in ensuring that
the requirements of FASB ASC 320 were satisfied.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Review journal entries for propriety.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The financial instruments are properly classified.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Gather audit evidence about the classification of
the financial instruments as available for sale.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Disclosures about financial instruments and financial instrument
transactions are adequate.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Read the financial statements and compare the disclosures
about financial instruments and financial instrument transactions
with the requirements of FASB ASC 320-10-50.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi8_scenario_b" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Scenario B — Discretionary Investing Arrangement With
Two Service Organizations: an Investment Adviser and a Broker-Dealer</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Scenario B — Discretionary Investing
Arrangement With Two Service Organizations: an Investment Adviser
and a Broker-Dealer</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_16" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.16</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.16</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In this scenario, Lane has authorized
the investment adviser to initiate trades on its behalf under a discretionary
arrangement, and the broker-dealer executes the trades and holds and
services financial instruments purchased.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_the_understanding_of_processes1" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>The Understanding of Processes and Controls the Auditor
Needs to Assess the Risk of Material Misstatement</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Understanding of Processes and Controls
the Auditor Needs to Assess the Risk of Material Misstatement</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_17" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.17</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.17</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">In order to assess the risks of material
misstatements, the auditor would obtain the following understanding
of processes and controls:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>The investment adviser initiates trades within parameters
set by Lane, and the investment adviser directs the broker-dealer
to execute them.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The broker-dealer sends a confirmation of each trade
to the investment adviser and Lane, which Lane usually receives within
three business days.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              Lane records the trade in the applicable general ledger
accounts when it receives the trade confirmation.
              <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
                <para>In this scenario, recording trades when Lane Components, Inc.
(Lane) receives the broker-dealer’s monthly statements may also be
an effective control for Lane.</para>
              </footnote>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Monthly, the broker-dealer sends the investment adviser
and Lane a statement that includes trades, servicing transactions,
a description of the financial instruments held, and the fair value
of each of those financial instruments.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Quarterly, the investment adviser provides Lane with
a summary of trades it has initiated and the performance of the financial
instruments’ portfolio. Monthly, Lane compares the information about
trades and the components of its financial instruments’ portfolio
shown in its accounting records (which are recorded based on confirmations
and statements from the broker-dealer) with the information in the
investment adviser’s monthly statement and identifies and investigates
any significant differences.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>At the end of the year, Lane records any trades initiated
by the investment adviser for which confirmations have not been received.
Information for recording that information is obtained from Lane’s
reconciliation of the investment adviser’s information with the broker-dealer’s
information.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Monthly, Lane records servicing transactions and changes
in unrealized holding gains and losses based on information in the
broker-dealer’s monthly statement. Lane compares the broker-dealer
information with its expectations based on published information and
investigates significant differences.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The broker-dealer’s execution of trades and holding
of financial instruments are not part of Lane’s information system.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi8_18" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.18</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.18</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">With respect to whether obtaining an understanding
of the controls of the investment adviser and broker-dealer is necessary
to plan the audit, the auditor concludes there is a high degree of
interaction between Lane’s activities and those of the broker-dealer
and investment adviser. Lane is able to and elects to implement effective
controls over the activities of the broker-dealer and the investment
adviser, including the investment adviser’s controls over initiation
of trades and the broker-dealer’s controls over servicing financial
instruments. Lane performs the following procedures:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Reconciles the investment adviser’s information with
the broker-dealer’s information and investigates significant differences</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Compares broker-dealer information about servicing
and fair values with its expectations based on published information
and investigates significant differences</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_the_auditors_assessment_of1" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>The Auditor’s Assessment of Control Risk</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Auditor’s Assessment of Control Risk</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_19" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.19</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.19</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor concludes that audit risk
can be reduced to an acceptable level without tests of Lane’s controls
over financial instruments and financial instrument transactions.
In addition, the auditor concludes that the number of financial instruments
and financial instrument transactions is small enough that gathering
audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of Lane’s controls
sufficient to support an assessment of control risk as low or moderate
is not likely to significantly improve audit efficiency.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi8_20" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.20</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.20</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">However, if the number of transactions
increases in future years, the auditor will reconsider that conclusion.
For example, the auditor may be able to reduce the number of trades
tested by gathering audit evidence about the operating effectiveness
of Lane’s controls over the reconciliation of the investment adviser’s
information with the broker-dealer’s information and by identifying
and investigating any significant differences. Such audit evidence
might be gathered by inspecting the documentation of some of the reconciliations,
noting their timeliness, and inspecting the documentation of the analysis
of results and investigation of significant differences.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_the_auditors_design_of1" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>The Auditor’s Design of Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Auditor’s Design of Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_21" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.21</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.21</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor identifies the objectives
for the audit of assertions about financial instruments and financial
instrument transactions and designs related procedures:</para>
        <table frame="all" id="aag-afi8_table2" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.97in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="2.99in"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">
                      <emphasis role="bold">Audit Objective</emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">
                      <emphasis role="bold">Procedure</emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The recorded financial instruments exist, and Lane has the rights
and obligations associated with ownership of the recorded financial
instruments.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Confirm with the broker-dealer the name of the investee,
the number of shares, whether the shares are pledged, and that Lane
is the owner. </para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The recorded financial instrument transactions occurred.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Inspect supporting documentation, such as trade confirmations
or entries in the broker-dealer’s monthly statements.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>All the financial instruments that Lane owns and all its financial
instrument transactions have been recorded.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Test the reconciliation of the investment adviser’s
information with the broker-dealer’s information.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Perform analytical procedures on dividends and realized
and unrealized gains and losses.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The financial instruments are recorded at their fair value,
determined by following the requirements of FASB ASC 320.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Obtain the per-share price quoted by the exchange
at the balance sheet date, and compare the quoted price with the price
Lane used.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Test the extension of the number of shares at the
quoted price. </para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Realized and unrealized holding gains and losses are properly
reported as earnings or other comprehensive income. </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Evaluate management’s considerations in ensuring that
the requirements of FASB ASC 320 were satisfied.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Review journal entries for propriety.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The financial instruments are properly classified. </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Gather audit evidence about the classification of
the financial instruments as available for sale. </para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Disclosures about financial instruments and financial instrument
transactions are adequate.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Read the financial statements, and compare the disclosures
about financial instruments and financial instrument transactions
with the requirements of FASB ASC 320-10-50.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi8_scenario_c" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Scenario C — Discretionary Investing Arrangement With
One Service Organization: a Broker-Dealer</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Scenario C — Discretionary Investing
Arrangement With One Service Organization: a Broker-Dealer</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_22" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.22</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.22</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In this scenario, the broker-dealer initiates
trades under a discretionary arrangement with Lane and also executes
the trades and holds and services the financial instruments purchased.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_the_understanding_of_processes2" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>The Understanding of Processes and Controls the Auditor
Needs to Assess the Risks of Material Misstatements</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Understanding of Processes and Controls
the Auditor Needs to Assess the Risks of Material Misstatements</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_23" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.23</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.23</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">In order to plan the audit, the auditor
obtains the following understanding of processes and controls:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>The broker-dealer initiates trades within parameters
set by Lane and also executes the trades.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The broker-dealer sends a confirmation of each trade
to Lane, which Lane usually receives within three business days.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Lane records the trade in the applicable general ledger
accounts when it receives the trade confirmation.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Monthly, the broker-dealer sends Lane a statement
that includes trades, servicing transactions, a description of the
financial instruments held, and the fair value of each of those financial
instruments.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Monthly, Lane compares the information about trades
and the components of its financial instruments’ portfolio that are
shown in its accounting records with the broker-dealer’s monthly statement
and investigates significant differences.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Monthly, Lane records servicing transactions and changes
in unrealized holding gains and losses based on information in the
broker-dealer’s monthly statement. Lane compares the broker-dealer
information with its expectations based on published information and
investigates significant differences.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi8_24" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.24</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.24</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Following the guidance in AU-C section
402B, the auditor concludes the following:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Initiating trades, servicing financial instruments,
and providing fair value information are broker-dealer services that
are part of Lane’s information system.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The broker-dealer’s execution of trades and holding
of securities are not part of Lane’s information system.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi8_25" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.25</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.25</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">With respect to whether obtaining an understanding
of the broker-dealer’s controls is necessary to plan the audit, the
auditor concludes one of the following:</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_2">
          Based on available information, the auditor
believes the broker-dealer has such controls.
          <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
            <para>To help plan the audit, the auditor may gather information about
broker-dealer controls over existence and completeness assertions
from a variety of sources. Examples are a service auditor’s type 1
or type 2 SOC 1 report, manuals provided by the broker-dealer, and
inquiries of broker-dealer personnel.</para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_2">Accordingly, obtaining an understanding of
the broker-dealer’s controls over those services is not necessary
to plan the audit.</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Because the broker-dealer initiates and executes trades,
all the information about trades that is available to Lane comes from
the broker-dealer. Accordingly, the broker-dealer’s controls over
the initiation of trades are significant to Lane’s internal control
over financial instrument transactions. Information about the manner
in which trades are initiated by the broker-dealer, as well as the
broker-dealer’s controls over that process, is needed to plan the
audit. The auditor decides that an effective broker-dealer control
over initiation of trades would be both of the following:</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>Establishing independent departments that provide
the investment advisory services and the holding and servicing of
financial instruments</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Reconciling the information about the financial instruments
that is provided by each department</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>The broker-dealer’s controls over servicing financial
instruments and providing fair value information are not significant
to Lane’s internal control over financial instrument transactions
because Lane does both of the following:</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>Compares broker-dealer information about servicing
and fair values with its expectations based on published information</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Investigates significant differences</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_the_auditors_assessment_of2" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>The Auditor’s Assessment of Control Risk</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Auditor’s Assessment of Control Risk</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_26" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.26</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.26</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          As discussed in paragraph .A7 of AU-C
section 402B, the significance of the controls at the service organization
to the user entity’s internal control also depends on the degree of
interaction between the service organization’s activities and those
of the user entity. The degree of interaction refers to the extent
to which a user entity is able to and elects to implement effective
controls over the processing performed by the service organization.
For example, a high degree of interaction exists between the activities
of the user entity and those at the service organization when the
user entity authorizes transactions, and the service organization
processes and accounts for those transactions. In these circumstances,
it may be practicable for the user entity to implement effective controls
over those transactions. On the other hand, when the service organization
initiates or initially records, processes, and accounts for the user
entity’s transactions, a lower degree of interaction exists between
the two organizations. In these circumstances, the user entity may
be unable to or may elect not to implement effective controls over
these transactions at the user entity and may rely on controls at
the service organization. In this arrangement, when the broker-dealer
both initiates and executes trades, the broker-dealer provides all
the information about trades that is available to the auditor. In
addition, the broker-dealer’s initiation and execution services are
largely provided electronically. Accordingly, the auditor concludes
that audit risk cannot be limited sufficiently without obtaining the
following audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of the
broker-dealer’s controls:
          <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
            <para>As a practical matter, Lane’s management should view information
about the operating effectiveness of the broker-dealer’s controls
as an important part of its risk management considerations.</para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Establishing independent departments that provide
the investment advisory services and the holding and servicing of
financial instruments</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Reconciling the information about the financial instruments
that is provided by each department</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi8_27" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.27</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.27</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">If the audit evidence about the operating
effectiveness of these controls supports an assessment of control
risk as low or moderate, the auditor may be able to reduce the number
of trades tested. The resulting audit efficiencies will become more
noticeable as the number of trades increases.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_the_auditors_design_of2" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>The Auditor’s Design of Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Auditor’s Design of Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_28" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.28</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.28</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          The auditor gathers audit evidence that
the broker-dealer has implemented the controls described in  and that those controls
are operating effectively. The auditor then identifies the objectives for the audit
of assertions about financial instruments and financial instrument
transactions and designs related procedures:
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_23">paragraph 8.23</olink>
          <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
            <para>The audit evidence can be obtained a variety of ways, such as
a type 2 service auditor’s report or special procedures performed
by the broker-dealer’s internal or external auditors.</para>
          </footnote>
          <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
            <para>
              In  and , the auditor
concludes that audit risk can be reduced to an acceptable level without
identifying controls placed in operation and gathering evidential
matter about their operating effectiveness. In this scenario, however,
the auditor concludes that identifying broker-dealer controls over
the existence and completeness assertions and gathering evidential
matter about their operating effectiveness is necessary to reduce
audit risk to an acceptable level. The only difference in the nature
of substantive procedures is that in this scenario, analytical procedures
are the only procedures performed to determine whether all the securities
that Lane owns and all its securities transactions have been recorded.
However, in  and , reconciliation
procedures are also performed.
              <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_a">scenarios A</olink>
              <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_b">B</olink>
              <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_a">scenarios A</olink>
              <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_b">B</olink>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
        <table frame="all" id="aag-afi8_table3" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.97in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="2.99in"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">
                      <emphasis role="bold">Audit Objective </emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">
                      <emphasis role="bold">Procedure</emphasis>
                    </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The recorded securities exist, and Lane has the rights and obligations
associated with ownership of the recorded financial instruments.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Confirm with the broker-dealer the name of the investee,
the number of shares, whether the shares are pledged, and that Lane
is the owner.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The recorded financial instrument transactions occurred.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Inspect supporting documentation, such as trade confirmations
or entries in the broker-dealer’s monthly statements.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>All the financial instruments that Lane owns and all its financial
instrument transactions have been recorded.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Perform analytical procedures on dividends and realized
and unrealized gains and losses.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The financial instruments are recorded at their fair value,
determined by following the requirements of FASB ASC 320.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Obtain the per-share price quoted by the exchange
at the balance sheet date and compare the quoted price with the price
that Lane used.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Test the extension of the number of shares at the
quoted price.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Realized and unrealized holding gains and losses are properly
reported as earnings or other comprehensive income.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Evaluate management’s considerations in ensuring that
the requirements of FASB ASC 320 were satisfied.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Review journal entries for propriety.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The financial instruments are properly classified.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Gather audit evidence about the classification of
the financial instruments as available for sale.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Disclosures about financial instruments and financial instrument
transactions are adequate.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Read the financial statements, and compare the disclosures
about financial instruments and financial instrument transactions
with the requirements of FASB ASC 320-10-50.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_performing_audit_procedures_in" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed Risk</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Performing Audit Procedures in Response
to Assessed Risk</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_29" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.29</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.29</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">External confirmation procedures frequently
may be relevant when addressing assertions associated with account
balances and their elements but need not be restricted to these items.
For example, the auditor may request external confirmation of the
terms of agreements, contracts, or transactions between an entity
and other parties. External confirmation procedures also may be performed
to obtain audit evidence about the absence of certain conditions.
For example, a request may specifically seek confirmation that no
side agreement exists that may be relevant to an entity’s revenue
cut-off assertion.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_audit_considerations_relating_to" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity Using a Service
Organization</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity
Using a Service Organization</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_30" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.30</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.30</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">In determining the nature and extent of
audit evidence to be obtained for financial statement balances representing
assets held or transactions processed by a service organization for
a user entity, the following procedures may be considered by the user
auditor:</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          . The reliability
of this source of evidence is determined by the nature and extent
of the accounting records and supporting documentation retained by
the user entity. In some cases, the user entity may not maintain independent
detailed records or documentation of specific transactions undertaken
on its behalf. 
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.Inspecting
records and documents held by the user entity
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          .
The user auditor’s access to the records of the service organization
may be established as part of the contractual arrangements between
the user entity and service organization. The user auditor may also
use another auditor on its behalf to gain access to the user entity’s
records maintained by the service organization or may ask the service
organization through the user entity for access to the user entity’s
records maintained by the service organization.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.Inspecting
records and documents held by the service organization
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          . When the user entity maintains independent records of balances
and transactions, confirmation from the service organization corroborating
those records usually constitutes reliable audit evidence concerning
the existence of the transactions and assets concerned. For example,
when multiple service organizations are used, such as an investment
manager and a custodian, and these service organizations maintain
independent records, the user auditor may confirm balances with these
organizations in order to compare this information with the independent
records of the user entity. If the user entity does not maintain independent
records, information obtained in confirmations from the service organization
is merely a statement of what is reflected in the records maintained
by the service organization. Therefore, such confirmations do not,
taken alone, constitute reliable audit evidence. In these circumstances,
the user auditor may consider whether an alternative source of independent
evidence can be identified.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            c.Obtaining
confirmations of balances and transactions from the service organization
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
          <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
            <para>
              Paragraph .A27 of AU-C section 402B, .
              <emphasis role="italic">Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity Using a Service Organization</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          . The effectiveness of analytical procedures is likely to vary by
assertion and will be affected by the extent and detail of information
available.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            d.Performing
analytical procedures on the records maintained by the user entity
or on the reports received from the service organization
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_audit_evidence_specific_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations for Selected
Items</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi_investments_in_financial_instruments" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Investments in Financial Instruments When Valuations
Are Based on Cost</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Investments in Financial Instruments
When Valuations Are Based on Cost</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi8_31" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>8.31</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">8.31</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Procedures to obtain evidence about the
valuation of financial instruments that are recorded at cost may include
inspection of documentation of the purchase price, confirmation with
the issuer or holder, and testing discount or premium amortization
either by recomputation or through the use of analytical procedures.
          <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn10" label="fn 10" role="number">
            <para>
              Paragraph .A3 of AU-C section 501B, .
              <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations for Selected Items</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>