<root id="aag-afi10_auditing_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Auditing Considerations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Auditing Considerations</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi_description_of_the_entity" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Description of the Entity</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Entity</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi10_17" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.17</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.17</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Key factors in assessing JLM’s control
environment are the following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>JLM’s management and board of directors instill high
integrity and ethical values throughout all aspects of the entity.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>JLM has in place a corporate compliance program specifically
prohibiting fraud against the entity that states the penalties for
fraud and requires employees to report fraud. In addition, a process
exists to identify high-risk areas of potential fraud exposure for
the entity.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>JLM has in place a quality information system that
provides system-generated information that gives management the ability
to make appropriate decisions in managing and controlling the entity’s
activities and to prepare reliable financial reports.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The board of directors is independent from management
and holds frequent, timely meetings with the CFO, accounting officer,
internal auditors, and external auditors.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Management provides sufficient, timely information
to allow monitoring of management’s financing objectives and strategies
and JLM’s financial position and operating results.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Management consults with the board of directors on
all business risks. Such business risks are accepted only after the
board of directors’ study and approval. The board of directors approves
all transactions that involve derivatives.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>JLM’s organizational structure is appropriate to the
entity’s size and activities and has the ability to provide information
appropriate to manage the entity’s activities. The knowledge and experience
of key managers are appropriate to their responsibilities.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Assignment of responsibility and delegation of authority
are appropriate for the entity, given its size and the nature and
complexity of activities. Authority has been delegated to deal with
organizational goals and objectives, operating functions, and regulatory
requirements, including responsibility for information systems and
authorization for changes.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>JLM’s investing and financing activities are monitored
closely by the board of directors.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Management and the board of directors have a high
commitment to competence when hiring employees. The investing and
financing function is staffed with individuals who are knowledgeable
about accounting for derivatives.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_18" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.18</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.18</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Although the volume of derivatives transactions
is low, the entity has established controls over them. Some of JLM’s
key controls include the following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Overall, controls over financial reporting of derivatives
transactions adequately provide segregation of duties and management
oversight.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>JLM has in place written policies regarding derivatives
transactions that were approved by the board of directors.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The board of directors approves all derivatives transactions. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Controls are in place to ensure that derivatives designated
as hedges meet the criteria for hedge accounting, both at inception
and on an ongoing basis. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>JLM’s CFO prepares an analysis for review by the board
of directors that identifies</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>the objective of the hedge and the strategy for accomplishing
the objective.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the nature of the risk being hedged.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the derivative hedging instrument.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the hedged item.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>how the entity will assess hedge effectiveness. </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>JLM’s investing and financing function maintains proper
segregation of duties among dealing (committing JLM to the transaction),
settlement (initiating cash payments and accepting cash receipts),
and accounting (recording all transactions and the valuation of the
derivative).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The board has approved a list of top-tier investment
brokers that management may utilize for investment services.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>JLM has put in place controls and procedures for the
prevention or detection of errors, including the following:</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>Accounting entries for derivatives transactions are
reviewed by senior management of the investing and financing function
and subject to periodic review by the CFO.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Fair values are obtained from a broker-dealer and
reviewed on a monthly basis.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Adjustments to financial instruments’ general ledger
accounts are reviewed and approved by the controller.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_summary_of_accounting" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Summary of Accounting</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Summary of Accounting</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi10_19" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.19</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.19</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Because no cash is required to enter into
the interest rate swap, no entry is required at its inception. The
swap should subsequently be adjusted to its fair value. Because the
swap is designated as a fair value hedge, the entire change in its
fair value should be recognized in earnings. In addition, changes
in the fair value of the bond obligation due to changes in the benchmark
interest rate should be recognized in earnings. The basis of the bond
obligation should be adjusted accordingly.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_types_of_potential_misstatements" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Types of Potential Misstatements</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Types of Potential Misstatements</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi10_20" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.20</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.20</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The types of potential misstatements are</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>failure to identify the swap.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>failure to properly document the hedge and the expectation
of hedge effectiveness.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the hedge does not remain highly effective on an ongoing
basis so that hedge accounting does not continue to be appropriate.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the assessment of hedge effectiveness is not consistent
with the risk management strategy documented for the particular hedging
relationship.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>JLM does not assess hedge effectiveness for similar
hedging strategies in a similar manner, and such differences are not
documented. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>incorrect determination of the fair value of the swap
and bonds.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>incorrect computation and recording of interest and
accrued interest on the bonds. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>inadequate financial statement presentation and disclosure.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_inherent_risk_factors_to" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for This Transaction
in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for
This Transaction in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi10_21" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.21</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.21</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The inherent risk factors are</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Based on the preceding factors, the auditor
determines inherent risk to be high.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>this transaction requires no initial cash outlay;
therefore, detection of the derivative may be difficult (although
it is unlikely that management would attempt to conceal the transaction).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>management does not have a valuation model capable
of valuing the interest rate swap and relies on the broker-dealer
who arranged the transaction for the valuation of the swap.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>credit risk related to the swap is moderate and primarily
related to the risk of nonperformance by the counterparty.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_control_risk" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Control Risk</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Control Risk</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi10_22" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.22</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.22</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Control risk has been assessed as high;
accordingly, a substantive approach will be taken when auditing JLM’s
derivatives transactions. Although JLM has put in place adequate controls
over its derivatives, due to the limited number of derivatives transactions
it has entered into, the auditor deems a substantive approach more
efficient and effective.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_timing_of_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Timing of Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Timing of Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi10_23" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.23</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.23</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Based on the assessment of control risk
as high and JLM’s inexperience in applying FASB ASC 815, the relevant
assertions associated with this transaction will be substantively
tested at year-end. </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_materiality" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Materiality</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Materiality</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi10_24" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.24</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.24</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The transaction is considered material.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_design_of_the_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Design of the Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Design of the Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi10_25" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.25</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.25</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor defined the following objectives
and related procedures for the audit of assertions about the interest
rate swap:</para>
      <table frame="all" id="aag-afi10_table3" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.81in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="3.14in"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="bold">
                    <emphasis role="italic">Audit Objective </emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="bold">
                    <emphasis role="italic">Procedure</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>All derivatives JLM has entered into are reported in its statement
of financial position. </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Read minutes of the board of directors for approval
of derivatives transactions.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Confirm at year-end the existence, rights, and obligations
and description of the swap with the broker-dealer. </para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Examine broker-dealer’s advice evidencing purchase
or issuance in JLM’s name.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Derivatives transactions are approved in accordance with JLM’s
investment policy.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Read JLM’s investment policy, and compare the interest
rate swap with the policy to determine if the swap’s terms are within
the policy’s guidelines.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Read minutes of the board of directors to determine
if approval to enter into the swap was obtained.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The fair values of the swap and bond are reasonable.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Obtain an understanding, and evaluate the relationship
between the broker-dealer and JLM.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>
                      Obtain an understanding of the methodology behind
the broker-dealer’s valuation. Alternatively, use a valuation consultant
to assist in evaluating the reasonableness of the estimate of fair
value, taking into consideration the requirements of AU-C section
620B, .
                      <emphasis role="italic">Using the Work of an Auditor’s Specialist</emphasis>
                    </para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The designation of the interest rate swap as a hedge meets the
applicable criteria for hedge accounting at inception and ongoing,
including the documentation requirement.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Read the board of directors’ minutes that document
the formal designation of the swap as a hedge of the fair value of
the bond obligation.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Confirm (in the management representation letter)
the designation of the swap as a hedge at the date of inception and
each subsequent measurement date.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>
                      Examine documentation that supports the designation,
documentation, and risk management requirements of FASB  (ASC) 815, .
                      <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
                      <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
                    </para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Recompute JLM’s calculation of hedge effectiveness
using the methodology prescribed by management, noting whether the
hedge effectiveness is assessed in a similar manner to other hedging
strategies of JLM.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Read board of directors’ minutes for documentation
of the board’s periodic review of hedging effectiveness.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The journal entries required to record the effect of the interest
rate swap are appropriate.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Review journal entries in relation to supporting documentation,
including the broker-dealer’s advice and cancelled checks for interest
payments made on the bond obligation and interest rate swap.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Presentation is appropriate and disclosure adequate.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Read the financial statements, and compare the presentation
and disclosure with the requirements of FASB ASC 815.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>