<root id="aag-afi5_13" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>5.13</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">5.13</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">The following matters may be relevant
when management uses a third-party pricing source:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . Some third-party pricing sources make more information
available about their process. For example, a pricing service often
provides information about its methodology, assumptions, and data
in valuing financial instruments at the asset class level. By contrast,
brokers often provide no, or only limited, information about the inputs
and assumptions used in developing the quote.
        <emphasis role="italic">The type of third-party pricing
source</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . The reliability
of prices from third-party pricing sources varies depending on the
observability of inputs (and, accordingly, the level of inputs in
the fair value hierarchy) and the complexity of the methodology for
valuing a specific security or asset class. For example, the reliability
of a price for an equity investment actively traded in a liquid market
is higher than that of a corporate bond traded in a liquid market
that has not traded on the measurement date, which, in turn, is more
reliable than that of an asset-backed security that is valued using
a discounted cash flow model.
        <emphasis role="italic">The nature of inputs used
and the complexity of the valuation technique</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . For example, a third-party
pricing source may be experienced in a certain type of financial instrument
and be recognized as such but may not be similarly experienced in
other types of financial instruments. The auditor’s past experience
with the third-party pricing source may also be relevant in this regard.
        <emphasis role="italic">The reputation and experience
of the third-party pricing source</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . For example, if a price obtained by management
comes from a counterparty, such as the broker who sold the financial
instrument to the entity, or an entity with a close relationship with
the entity being audited, the price may not be reliable.
        <emphasis role="italic">The objectivity of the third-party
pricing source</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . The degree to which
management has controls in place to assess the reliability of information
from third-party pricing sources affects the reliability of the fair
value measurement. For example, management may have controls in place
to
        <emphasis role="italic">The entity’s controls over
the use of third-party pricing sources</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>review and approve the use of the third-party pricing
source, including consideration of the reputation, experience, and
objectivity of the third-party pricing source.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>determine the completeness, relevance, and accuracy
of the prices and pricing-related data.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . The controls and processes over valuations for
the asset classes are of interest to the auditor. For example, a third-party
pricing source may have strong controls around how prices are developed.
In addition, the third-party pricing source may include the use of
a formalized process for customers, both buy and sell side, to challenge
the prices received from the pricing service when supported by appropriate
evidence. This enables the third-party pricing source to constantly
correct prices to more fully reflect the information available to
market participants.
        <emphasis role="italic">The third-party pricing source’s
controls</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>