<root id="aag-afi3_the_entitys_control_activities" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>The Entity’s Control Activities</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Entity’s Control Activities</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi3_27" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.27</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.27</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Control activities over financial instrument
transactions are designed to prevent or detect problems that hinder
an entity from achieving its objectives. These objectives may be operational,
financial reporting, or compliance in nature. Control activities over
financial instruments are designed relative to the complexity and
volume of transactions of financial instruments and will generally
include an appropriate authorization process, adequate segregation
of duties, and other policies and procedures designed to ensure that
the entity’s control objectives are met. Process flow charts may assist
in identifying an entity’s controls and lack of controls.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_authorization" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Authorization</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Authorization</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_28" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.28</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.28</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Authorization can affect the financial
statement assertions both directly and indirectly. For example, even
if a transaction is executed outside an entity’s policies, it nonetheless
may be recorded and accounted for accurately. However, unauthorized
transactions could significantly increase risk to the entity, thereby
significantly increasing the risk of material misstatement because
they would be undertaken outside the system of internal control. To
mitigate this risk, an entity will often establish a clear policy
regarding what transactions can be traded by whom, and adherence to
this policy will then be monitored by an entity’s administrative and
support services. Monitoring trading activities of individuals (for
example, by reviewing unusually high volumes or significant gains
or losses incurred) will assist management in ensuring compliance
with the entity’s policies, including the authorization of new types
of transactions, and evaluating whether fraud has occurred.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_29" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.29</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.29</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The function of an entity’s deal initiation
records is to identify clearly the nature and purpose of individual
transactions and the rights and obligations arising under each financial
instrument contract, including the enforceability of the contracts.
In addition to the basic financial information, such as a notional
amount, complete and accurate records, at a minimum, typically include
the</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        identity of the dealer.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          a.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        identity of the person recording the transaction (if not the dealer),
when the transaction was initiated (including the date and time of
the transaction), and how it was recorded in the entity’s information
systems.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          b.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        nature and purpose of the transaction, including whether it is intended
to hedge an underlying commercial exposure.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          c.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_segregation_of_duties" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Segregation of Duties</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Segregation of Duties</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_30" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.30</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.30</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Segregation of duties and the assignment
of personnel is an important control activity, particularly when exposed
to financial instruments. Financial instrument activities may be segregated
into a number of functions, including the following:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Executing the transaction (dealing). In entities with a high volume
of financial instrument transactions, this may be done by the sales
function.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          a.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Initiating cash payments and accepting cash receipts (settlements).
        <emphasis role="italic">
          b.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Sending out trade confirmations and reconciling the differences between
the entity’s records and replies from counterparties, if any.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          c.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Recording correctly all transactions in the accounting records.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          d.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Monitoring risk limits. In entities with a high volume of financial
instrument transactions, this may be performed by the risk management
function.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          e.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Monitoring positions and valuing financial instruments.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          f.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_31" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.31</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.31</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Many organizations choose to segregate
the duties of those investing in financial instruments, those valuing
financial instruments, those settling financial instruments, and those
accounting for the financial instruments. </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_32" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.32</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.32</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">When an entity is too small to achieve
proper segregation of duties, the role of management and those charged
with governance in monitoring financial instrument activities is of
particular importance.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_33" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.33</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.33</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">A feature of some entities’ internal control
is an independent price verification (IPV) function. This department
is responsible for separately verifying the price of some financial
instruments and may use alternative data sources, methodologies, and
assumptions. The IPV provides an objective look at the pricing that
has been developed in another part of the entity. </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_34" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.34</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.34</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Ordinarily, the risk management function
establishes policies on valuation and other functions (for example,
administrative and support services) and may be responsible for ensuring
adherence to the policy. Entities with a greater use of financial
instruments may perform daily valuations of their financial instrument
portfolio and examine the contribution to profit or loss of individual
financial instrument valuations as a test of the reasonableness of
valuations.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_35" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.35</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.35</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Regular reconciliation of the entity’s
records to external banks’ and custodians’ records enables the entity
to ensure transactions are properly recorded. Appropriate segregation
of duties between those transacting the trades and those reconciling
them is important, as is a rigorous process for reviewing reconciliations
and clearing reconciling items.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_36" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.36</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.36</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Controls may also be established that
require traders to identify whether a complex financial instrument
may have unique features (for example, embedded derivatives). In such
circumstances, there may be a separate function that evaluates complex
financial instrument transactions at their initiation (which may be
known as a product control group) working in connection with an accounting
policy group to ensure that the transaction is accurately recorded.
Although smaller entities may not have product control groups, an
entity may have a process in place relating to the review of complex
financial instrument contracts at the point of origination in order
to ensure that they are accounted for appropriately in accordance
with the applicable financial reporting framework.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_37" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.37</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.37</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        , "Examples of Control Objectives, Related Controls, and
Illustrative Tests of Controls for Financial Instruments," of this
guide provides examples of control objectives, related controls, and
illustrative tests of controls for financial instruments.
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appC">Appendix
C</olink>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>