<root id="aag-afi3" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Chapter 3 — Internal Control</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Chapter 3</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">Internal Control</subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi3_update_3-1">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
3-1 : Auditor Reporting
and Amendments, Including Amendments Addressing Disclosures in the
Audit of Financial Statements
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In May 2019,
the AICPA issued Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 134, . This suite of auditor reporting standards includes a new (although
not required) , , and replaces the following AU-C sections in AICPA :
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditor Reporting and Amendments, Including Amendments
Addressing Disclosures in the Audit of Financial Statements</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Key Audit Matters
in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Professional Standards</emphasis>
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">AU-C section
701</olink>
      <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
        <para>
          All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
          <emphasis role="italic">
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial
Statements</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_705">Section 705</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent
Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_706">Section 706</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Emphasis-of-Matter Paragraphs and Other-Matter
Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>SAS No. 134, which also amends various
other AU-C sections, addresses the auditor’s responsibility to form
an opinion on the financial statements and the form and content of
the auditor’s report issued as a result of an audit of financial statements.
It also addresses the auditor’s responsibilities, and the form and
content of the auditor’s report, when the auditor concludes that a
modification to the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements
is necessary, and when additional communications are necessary in
the auditor’s report.</para>
    <para>
      At the time SAS No. 134 was originally
issued, the amendments were intended to become effective for audits
of financial statements for periods ending on or after December 15,
2020 and early implementation was not permitted; however, in May 2020,
the AICPA issued SAS No. 141, .
      <emphasis role="italic">Amendment to
the Effective Dates of SAS Nos. 134–140</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>SAS
No. 141 delays the effective dates of SAS Nos. 134–140, and the amendments
to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140, from December 15, 2020 to
December 15, 2021, in order to provide more time for firms to implement
these SASs in light of the effect of the coronavirus pandemic. SAS
Nos. 134, 136–137, and 139–140, as originally issued, do not permit
early implementation; however, SAS No. 141 amends these SASs to no
longer preclude early implementation. </para>
    <para>SAS Nos. 134 and
136–140 are interrelated because the Auditing Standards Board (ASB)
amended the auditor reporting model adopted in SAS No. 134 with the
issuance of the subsequent SASs. The effective dates were aligned
so that these SASs would be implemented as a suite, primarily to accommodate
the amendments to the auditor reporting model. Accordingly, the ASB
recommends that all of these SASs be implemented concurrently. SAS
No. 141 was effective upon issuance.</para>
  </paraBlock>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi2_update_3-2">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
3-2 : Audit Evidence
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In July 2020, the AICPA issued ,  (AU-C sec. 500), which supersedes AU-C section
500A, , and amends
the following AU-C sections: 
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">SAS No. 142</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit
Evidence</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_315">Section 315</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment
and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_330">Section 330</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response
to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_530">Section 530</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Sampling</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">Section
540A</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates,
Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
       explains what constitutes audit evidence in an
audit of financial statements and sets out attributes of information
that are taken into account by the auditor when evaluating information
to be used as audit evidence.
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">SAS No. 142</olink>
    </para>
    <para>
      This SAS is effective for
audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after December
15, 2022. A link to the final SAS and other resources can be found
on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <section id="aag-afi3_understanding_internal_control" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Understanding Internal Control</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Understanding Internal Control</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_01" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.01</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.01</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        AU-C section 315B, , addresses the auditor’s responsibility
to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the financial
statements through understanding the entity and its environment, including
the entity’s internal control. Obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment,
including the entity’s internal control, is a continuous, dynamic
process of gathering, updating, and analyzing information throughout
the audit. The understanding obtained enables the auditor to identify
and assess the risks of material misstatement at the financial statement
and assertion levels, thereby providing a basis for designing and
implementing responses to the assessed risks of material misstatement.
The volume and variety of the financial instrument transactions of
an entity typically determine the nature and extent of controls that
may exist at an entity. An understanding of how financial instruments
are monitored and controlled assists the auditor in determining the
nature, timing, and extent of audit procedures.
        <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks
of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
          <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_02" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.02</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.02</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">AU-C section 315B requires the auditor
to obtain a sufficient understanding of internal control by performing
risk assessment procedures to</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">The auditor is required to use this knowledge
to</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>evaluate the design of controls relevant to an audit
of financial statements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>determine whether they have been implemented.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>identify types of potential misstatements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>consider factors that affect the risks of material
misstatement.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>design tests of controls, when applicable, and substantive
procedures.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_03" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.03</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.03</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">AU-C section 315B explains that the division
of internal control into the following five components, for purposes
of generally accepted accounting standards, provides a useful framework
for auditors when considering how different aspects of an entity’s
internal control may affect the audit:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        The control environment
        <emphasis role="italic">
          a.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        The entity’s risk assessment process
        <emphasis role="italic">
          b.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        The information system, including the related business processes
relevant to financial reporting and communication
        <emphasis role="italic">
          c.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Control activities
        <emphasis role="italic">
          d.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Monitoring of controls
        <emphasis role="italic">
          e.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_04" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.04</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.04</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The division does not necessarily reflect
how an entity designs, implements, and maintains internal control
or how it may classify any particular component. Auditors may use
different terminology or frameworks to describe the various aspects
of internal control and their effect on the audit other than those
used in this section, provided that all the components described in
this section are addressed.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_05" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.05</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.05</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        This chapter provides background information
and examples of controls that may exist in an entity that deals in
a high volume of financial instrument transactions, whether for trading
or investing purposes. The examples are not meant to be exhaustive,
and entities may establish different control environments and processes
depending on their size, the industry in which they operate, and the
extent of their financial instrument transactions. The following four
Technical Questions and Answers (Q&amp;A) sections address internal control:
        <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
          <para>
             is not a source
of established authoritative accounting principles as described in
the FASB , the authoritative source
of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for nongovernmental
entities. This nonauthoritative material is based on selected practice
matters identified by the staff of the AICPA  and various other bodies within the AICPA and has
not been approved, disapproved, or otherwise acted upon by any senior
technical committee of the AICPA. 
            <emphasis role="italic">
              <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tpa">Technical Questions and Answers</olink>
            </emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="superscript">®</emphasis>
            <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/research/technicalhotline.html">Technical
Hotline</ulink>
          </para>
          <para>
            All Q&amp;A sections can be found in .
            <tab/>
            <emphasis role="italic">
              <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tpa">Technical Questions and Answers</olink>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <table frame="all" print-only-role="ps_narrative_normal" id="aag-afi3_table1" role="ps_table_center">
        <tgroup align="left" cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2.5in"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="4in"/>
          <tbody>
            <row valign="top">
              <entry>
                <para>
                  , “Obtaining an Understanding of Business Processes Relevant to Financial
Reporting and Communication”
                  <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_17">8200.17</olink>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses whether auditors are required
to obtain an understanding of business processes relevant to financial
reporting and communication in every audit engagement.</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row valign="top">
              <entry>
                <para>
                  , “Obtaining an Understanding of Internal Control Relevant to the
Audit”
                  <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_18">8200.18</olink>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses whether an understanding of internal
control relevant to the audit should encompass more than control activities. </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row valign="top">
              <entry>
                <para>
                  , “Obtaining an Understanding of the Controls Relevant to the Audit”
                  <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_19">8200.19</olink>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses whether an understanding of controls
relevant to the audit requires that the auditor evaluate the design
of controls relevant to the audit and determine whether they have
been implemented every year. </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row valign="top">
              <entry>
                <para>
                  , “Control Activities That Are Always Relevant to the Audit”
                  <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_20">8200.20</olink>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses the control activities that are
always considered to be relevant in every audit. </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row valign="top">
              <entry>
                <para>
                  , “Control Activities That May Be Relevant to the Audit”
                  <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_21">8200.21</olink>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses the control activities that may
vary from audit engagement to audit engagement and may be relevant
to the audit (based on the auditor’s judgment).</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_06" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.06</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.06</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">As in any control system, it is sometimes
necessary to duplicate controls at different control levels (for example,
preventative, detective, and monitoring) to avoid the risk of material
misstatement.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_the_entitys_control_environment" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>The Entity’s Control Environment</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Entity’s Control Environment</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_commitment_to_competence" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Commitment to Competence </titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Commitment to Competence </title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi3_07" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.07</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.07</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">The degree of complexity of some financial
instrument activities may mean that only a few individuals within
the entity fully understand those activities or have the expertise
necessary to value the instruments on an ongoing basis. Use of financial
instruments without relevant expertise within the entity increases
the risk of material misstatement.</para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_participation_by_those_charged" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Participation by Those Charged With Governance</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Participation by Those Charged With
Governance</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi3_08" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.08</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.08</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraph .A79 of AU-C section 315B addresses
elements of the control environment that may be relevant when obtaining
an understanding of the control environment and identifies the following
attributes of those charged with governance:</para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            their independence from management.
            <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
            <tab/>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            their experience and stature.
            <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
            <tab/>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            the extent of their involvement and the information they receive
and the scrutiny of activities.
            <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
            <tab/>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            the appropriateness of their actions, including the degree
to which difficult questions are raised and pursued with management.
            <emphasis role="italic">d.</emphasis>
            <tab/>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            their interaction with internal and external auditors.
            <emphasis role="italic">e.</emphasis>
            <tab/>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_0">Those charged with governance oversee and
concur with management’s establishment of the entity’s overall risk
appetite and provide oversight over the entity’s financial instrument
activities. An entity’s policies for the purchase, sale, and holding
of financial instruments are aligned with its attitude toward risk
and the expertise of those involved in financial instrument activities.
In addition, an entity may establish governance structures and control
processes aimed at</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>communicating investment decisions and assessments
of all material measurement uncertainty to those charged with governance,
as well as </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>evaluating the entity’s overall risk appetite when
engaging in financial instrument transactions.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_organizational_structure" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Organizational Structure</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Organizational Structure</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi3_09" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.09</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.09</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Financial instrument activities may be
operated on either a centralized or decentralized basis. Such activities
and related decision making depend heavily on the flow of accurate,
reliable, and timely management information. The difficulty of collecting
and aggregating such information increases with the number of locations
and businesses in which an entity is involved. The risks of material
misstatement associated with financial instrument activities may increase
with greater decentralization of control activities. This may especially
be true when an entity is based in different locations or, perhaps,
other countries.</para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_assignment_of_authority_and" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Assignment of Authority and Responsibility</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Assignment of Authority and Responsibility</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi3_10" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.10</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.10</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Providing direction through clearly stated
policies approved by those charged with governance for the purchase,
sale, and holding of financial instruments enables management to establish
an effective approach to taking and managing business risks. These
policies are most clear when they state the entity’s objectives with
regard to its risk management activities and the financial instrument
and hedging alternatives available to meet these objectives and when
they reflect the following:</para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            Level of management’s expertise
            <emphasis role="italic">
              a.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            Sophistication of the entity’s internal control and monitoring systems
            <emphasis role="italic">
              b.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            Entity’s asset and liability structure
            <emphasis role="italic">
              c.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            Entity’s capacity to maintain liquidity and absorb losses of capital
            <emphasis role="italic">
              d.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            Types of financial instruments that management believes will meet
its objectives
            <emphasis role="italic">
              e.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            Uses of financial instruments that management believes will meet
its objectives (for example, whether derivatives may be used for speculative
purposes or only for hedging purposes)
            <emphasis role="italic">
              f.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi3_11" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.11</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.11</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Management may design policies aligned
with its valuation capabilities and establish controls to ensure that
these policies are adhered to by those employees responsible for the
entity’s valuation. These may include</para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            processes for the design and validation of methodologies used to
produce valuations, including how measurement uncertainty is addressed.
            <emphasis role="italic">
              a.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            policies regarding maximizing the use of observable inputs and the
types of information to be gathered to support valuations of financial
instruments.
            <emphasis role="italic">
              b.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi3_12" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.12</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.12</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">In smaller entities, dealing in financial
instruments may be rare, and management’s knowledge and experience
may be limited. Nevertheless, establishing policies over financial
instruments helps an entity determine its risk appetite and consider
whether investing in particular financial instruments achieves a stated
objective.</para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_human_resource_policies_and" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Human Resource Policies and Practices</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Human Resource Policies and Practices</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi3_13" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.13</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.13</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Entities may establish policies requiring
key employees, both sales function and administrative and support
services, to take mandatory time off from their duties. This type
of control is used as a means of preventing and detecting fraud, in
particular if those engaged in trading activities are creating false
trades or inaccurately recording transactions.</para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_use_of_service_organizations" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Use of Service Organizations</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Use of Service Organizations</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi3_14" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.14</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.14</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            Entities may use service organizations
(for example, asset managers) to initiate the purchase or sale of
financial instruments, maintain records of transactions for the entity,
or value financial instruments. Some entities may be dependent on
these service organizations to provide the basis of reporting for
the financial instruments held. However, if management does not have
an understanding about the controls in place at a service organization,
the auditor may not be able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence to rely on controls at that service organization. AU-C section
402B, , establishes requirements
for the auditor to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence when
an entity uses the services of one or more service organizations.  provide further
guidance about the use of a service organization.
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Considerations Relating to an
Entity Using a Service Organization</emphasis>
            <olink targetptr="aag-afi3_40">Paragraphs 3.40–.54</olink>
          </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi3_15" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.15</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.15</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">The use of service organizations may strengthen
or weaken the control environment for financial instruments. For example,
a service organization’s personnel may have more experience with financial
instruments than the entity’s management or more robust internal control
over financial reporting. The use of the service organization also
may allow for greater segregation of duties. On the other hand, the
service organization may have a poor control environment. </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi3_16" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.16</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.16</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            , "Illustrative Questions About the Entity’s Controls Over
Its Financial Instrument Activities," of this guide provides an illustration
of questions that may be helpful to the auditor in obtaining an understanding
of an entity’s controls over its financial instrument activities.
            <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appB">Appendix
B</olink>
          </para>
        </section>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_the_entitys_risk_assessment" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>The Entity’s Risk Assessment Process</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Entity’s Risk Assessment Process</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_17" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.17</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.17</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">An entity’s risk assessment process exists
to establish how management identifies business risks that derive
from its use of financial instruments, including how management estimates
the significance of the risks, assesses the likelihood of their occurrence,
and decides upon actions to manage them.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_18" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.18</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.18</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The entity’s risk assessment process forms
the basis for how management determines the risks to be managed. Risk
assessment processes exist with the objective of ensuring that management</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          understands the risks inherent in a financial instrument before they
enter into it, including the objective of entering into the transaction
and its structure (for example, the economics and business purpose
of the entity’s financial instrument activities).
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          performs adequate due diligence commensurate with the risks associated
with particular financial instruments.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          monitors its outstanding positions to understand how market conditions
are affecting its exposures.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            c.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          has procedures in place to reduce or change risk exposure if necessary
and for managing business risk, which includes the risk of damaging
its reputation.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            d.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          subjects these processes to rigorous supervision and review.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            e.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_19" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.19</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.19</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The structure implemented to monitor and
manage exposure to risks should</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          be appropriate and consistent with the entity’s attitude toward risk
as determined by those charged with governance.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          specify the approval levels for the authorization of different types
of financial instruments and transactions that may be entered into
and for what purposes. The permitted instruments and approval levels
should reflect the expertise of those involved in financial instrument
activities, demonstrating management’s commitment to competence.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          set appropriate limits for the maximum allowable exposure to each
type of risk (including approved counterparties). Levels of allowable
exposure may vary depending on the type of risk or counterparty.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            c.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          provide for the objective and timely monitoring of the financial
risks and control activities.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            d.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          provide for the objective and timely reporting of exposures, risks,
and the results of financial instrument activities in managing risk.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            e.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          evaluate management’s track record for assessing the risks of particular
financial instruments.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            f.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_20" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.20</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.20</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The types and levels of risks that an
entity faces are directly related to the types of financial instruments
with which it deals, including the complexity of these instruments
and the volume of financial instruments transacted.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_risk_management_function" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Risk Management Function</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Risk Management Function</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi3_21" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.21</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.21</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Some entities (for example, large financial
institutions with a high volume of financial instrument transactions)
may be required by law or regulation or may choose to establish a
formal risk management function. This function is separated from those
responsible for undertaking and managing financial instrument transactions.
The function is responsible for reporting on and monitoring financial
instrument activities and may include a formal risk committee established
by those charged with governance. Examples of key responsibilities
in this area may include</para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            implementing the risk management policy set by those charged with
governance (including analyses of the risks to which an entity may
be exposed).
            <emphasis role="italic">
              a.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            designing risk limit structures and ensuring these risk limits are
implemented in practice.
            <emphasis role="italic">
              b.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            developing stress scenarios and subjecting open position portfolios
to sensitivity analysis, including reviews of unusual movements in
positions.
            <emphasis role="italic">
              c.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            reviewing and analyzing new financial instrument products.
            <emphasis role="italic">
              d.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi3_22" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.22</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.22</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Financial instruments may have the associated
risk that a loss might exceed the amount, if any, of the value of
the financial instrument recognized on the balance sheet. For example,
a sudden fall in the market price of a commodity may force an entity
to realize losses to close a forward position in that commodity due
to collateral, or margin, requirements. In some cases, the potential
losses may be enough to cast substantial doubt on the entity’s ability
to continue as a going concern. The entity may perform sensitivity
analyses or value-at-risk analyses to assess the future hypothetical
effects on financial instruments subject to market risks. However,
value-at-risk analysis does not fully reflect the extent of the risks
that may affect the entity; sensitivity and scenario analyses also
may be subject to limitations.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi3_23" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.23</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.23</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">The volume and sophistication of financial
instrument activity and relevant regulatory requirements will influence
the entity’s consideration whether to establish a formal risk management
function and how the function may be structured. In entities that
have not established a separate risk management function (for example,
entities with relatively few financial instruments or financial instruments
that are less complex), reporting on and monitoring financial instrument
activities may be a component of the accounting or finance function’s
responsibility or management’s overall responsibility and may include
a formal risk committee established by those charged with governance.</para>
        </section>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_the_entitys_information_system" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>The Entity’s Information System</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Entity’s Information System</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_24" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.24</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.24</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The key objective of an entity’s information
system is that it is capable of capturing and recording all the transactions
accurately, settling them, valuing them, and producing information
to enable the financial instruments to be risk managed and for controls
to be monitored. Difficulties can arise in entities that engage in
a high volume of financial instruments, in particular if a multiplicity
of systems are poorly integrated and have manual interfaces without
adequate controls. </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_25" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.25</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.25</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Certain financial instruments may require
a large number of accounting entries. As the sophistication or level
of the financial instrument activities increases, it is necessary
for the sophistication of the information system to also increase.
Specific issues that can arise with respect to financial instruments
include</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          information systems, particularly for smaller entities, not having
the capability or being appropriately configured to process financial
instrument transactions, especially when the entity does not have
any prior experience in dealing with financial instruments. This may
result in an increased number of manual transactions that may further
increase the risk of error.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          the potential diversity of systems required to process more complex
transactions and the need for regular reconciliations between them,
in particular when the systems are not interfaced or may be subject
to manual intervention.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          the potential that more complex transactions, if they are only traded
by a small number of individuals, may be valued or risk managed on
spreadsheets rather than main processing systems and for the physical
and logical password security around those spreadsheets to be more
easily compromised.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            c.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          a lack of review of systems exception logs, external confirmations,
and broker quotes, when available, to validate the entries generated
by the systems.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            d.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          difficulties in controlling and evaluating the key inputs to systems
for valuation of financial instruments, particularly when those systems
are maintained by the group of traders known as the sales function
or a third-party service provider, or the transactions in question
are nonroutine or thinly traded.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            e.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          failure to evaluate the design and calibration of complex models
used to process these transactions initially and on a periodic basis.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            f.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          the potential that management has not set up a library of models
with controls around access, change, and maintenance of individual
models in order to maintain a strong audit trail of the accredited
versions of models and in order to prevent unauthorized access or
amendments to those models.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            g.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          the disproportionate investment that may be required in risk management
and control systems when an entity only undertakes a limited number
of financial instrument transactions and the potential for misunderstanding
of the output by management if the risk management and control systems
are not used for these types of transactions.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            h.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          the potential requirement for third-party systems providers (for
example, from a service organization) to record, process, account
for, or risk manage appropriately financial instrument transactions
and the need to reconcile appropriately and challenge the output from
those providers.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            i.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          additional security and control considerations relevant to the use
of an electronic network when an entity uses electronic commerce for
financial instrument transactions.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            j.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_26" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.26</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.26</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Information systems relevant to financial
reporting serve as an important source of information for the quantitative
disclosures in the financial statements. However, entities may also
develop and maintain nonfinancial systems used for internal reporting
and to generate information included in qualitative disclosures (for
example, regarding risks and uncertainties or sensitivity analyses).</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_the_entitys_control_activities" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>The Entity’s Control Activities</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Entity’s Control Activities</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_27" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.27</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.27</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Control activities over financial instrument
transactions are designed to prevent or detect problems that hinder
an entity from achieving its objectives. These objectives may be operational,
financial reporting, or compliance in nature. Control activities over
financial instruments are designed relative to the complexity and
volume of transactions of financial instruments and will generally
include an appropriate authorization process, adequate segregation
of duties, and other policies and procedures designed to ensure that
the entity’s control objectives are met. Process flow charts may assist
in identifying an entity’s controls and lack of controls.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_authorization" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Authorization</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Authorization</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi3_28" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.28</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.28</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Authorization can affect the financial
statement assertions both directly and indirectly. For example, even
if a transaction is executed outside an entity’s policies, it nonetheless
may be recorded and accounted for accurately. However, unauthorized
transactions could significantly increase risk to the entity, thereby
significantly increasing the risk of material misstatement because
they would be undertaken outside the system of internal control. To
mitigate this risk, an entity will often establish a clear policy
regarding what transactions can be traded by whom, and adherence to
this policy will then be monitored by an entity’s administrative and
support services. Monitoring trading activities of individuals (for
example, by reviewing unusually high volumes or significant gains
or losses incurred) will assist management in ensuring compliance
with the entity’s policies, including the authorization of new types
of transactions, and evaluating whether fraud has occurred.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi3_29" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.29</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.29</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">The function of an entity’s deal initiation
records is to identify clearly the nature and purpose of individual
transactions and the rights and obligations arising under each financial
instrument contract, including the enforceability of the contracts.
In addition to the basic financial information, such as a notional
amount, complete and accurate records, at a minimum, typically include
the</para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            identity of the dealer.
            <emphasis role="italic">
              a.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            identity of the person recording the transaction (if not the dealer),
when the transaction was initiated (including the date and time of
the transaction), and how it was recorded in the entity’s information
systems.
            <emphasis role="italic">
              b.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            nature and purpose of the transaction, including whether it is intended
to hedge an underlying commercial exposure.
            <emphasis role="italic">
              c.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_segregation_of_duties" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Segregation of Duties</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Segregation of Duties</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi3_30" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.30</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.30</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Segregation of duties and the assignment
of personnel is an important control activity, particularly when exposed
to financial instruments. Financial instrument activities may be segregated
into a number of functions, including the following:</para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            Executing the transaction (dealing). In entities with a high volume
of financial instrument transactions, this may be done by the sales
function.
            <emphasis role="italic">
              a.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            Initiating cash payments and accepting cash receipts (settlements).
            <emphasis role="italic">
              b.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            Sending out trade confirmations and reconciling the differences between
the entity’s records and replies from counterparties, if any.
            <emphasis role="italic">
              c.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            Recording correctly all transactions in the accounting records.
            <emphasis role="italic">
              d.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            Monitoring risk limits. In entities with a high volume of financial
instrument transactions, this may be performed by the risk management
function.
            <emphasis role="italic">
              e.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
            Monitoring positions and valuing financial instruments.
            <emphasis role="italic">
              f.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi3_31" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.31</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.31</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Many organizations choose to segregate
the duties of those investing in financial instruments, those valuing
financial instruments, those settling financial instruments, and those
accounting for the financial instruments. </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi3_32" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.32</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.32</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">When an entity is too small to achieve
proper segregation of duties, the role of management and those charged
with governance in monitoring financial instrument activities is of
particular importance.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi3_33" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.33</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.33</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">A feature of some entities’ internal control
is an independent price verification (IPV) function. This department
is responsible for separately verifying the price of some financial
instruments and may use alternative data sources, methodologies, and
assumptions. The IPV provides an objective look at the pricing that
has been developed in another part of the entity. </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi3_34" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.34</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.34</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Ordinarily, the risk management function
establishes policies on valuation and other functions (for example,
administrative and support services) and may be responsible for ensuring
adherence to the policy. Entities with a greater use of financial
instruments may perform daily valuations of their financial instrument
portfolio and examine the contribution to profit or loss of individual
financial instrument valuations as a test of the reasonableness of
valuations.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi3_35" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.35</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.35</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Regular reconciliation of the entity’s
records to external banks’ and custodians’ records enables the entity
to ensure transactions are properly recorded. Appropriate segregation
of duties between those transacting the trades and those reconciling
them is important, as is a rigorous process for reviewing reconciliations
and clearing reconciling items.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi3_36" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.36</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.36</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Controls may also be established that
require traders to identify whether a complex financial instrument
may have unique features (for example, embedded derivatives). In such
circumstances, there may be a separate function that evaluates complex
financial instrument transactions at their initiation (which may be
known as a product control group) working in connection with an accounting
policy group to ensure that the transaction is accurately recorded.
Although smaller entities may not have product control groups, an
entity may have a process in place relating to the review of complex
financial instrument contracts at the point of origination in order
to ensure that they are accounted for appropriately in accordance
with the applicable financial reporting framework.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi3_37" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>3.37</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">3.37</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            , "Examples of Control Objectives, Related Controls, and
Illustrative Tests of Controls for Financial Instruments," of this
guide provides examples of control objectives, related controls, and
illustrative tests of controls for financial instruments.
            <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appC">Appendix
C</olink>
          </para>
        </section>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_monitoring_of_controls" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Monitoring of Controls</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Monitoring of Controls</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_38" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.38</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.38</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The entity’s ongoing monitoring activities
are designed to detect and correct any deficiencies in the effectiveness
of controls over transactions for financial instruments and their
valuation. It is important that there is adequate supervision and
review of financial instrument activity within the entity, including</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          all controls being subject to review (for example, the monitoring
of operational statistics, such as the number of reconciling items
or the difference between internal pricing and external pricing sources).
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          the need for robust IT controls and monitoring and validating their
application.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          the need to ensure that information resulting from different processes
and systems is adequately reconciled. For example, there is little
benefit in a valuation process if its output is not reconciled properly
to the general ledger.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            c.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_39" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.39</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.39</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">In larger entities, sophisticated computer
information systems generally keep track of financial instrument activities
and are designed to ensure that settlements occur when due. More complex
computer systems may generate automatic postings to clearing accounts
to monitor cash movements, and controls over processing are put in
place with the objective of ensuring that financial instrument activities
are correctly reflected in the entity’s records. Computer systems
may be designed to produce exception reports to alert management to
situations when financial instruments have not been used within authorized
limits or when transactions undertaken were not within the limits
established for the chosen counterparties. However, even a sophisticated
computer system may not ensure the completeness of the recording of
financial instrument transactions. Accordingly, management frequently
puts additional procedures in place to increase the likelihood that
all transactions will be recorded.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_determining_whether_the_service" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Determining Whether the Service Organization’s Services
Are Part of the User Entity’s Information System</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Determining Whether the Service Organization’s
Services Are Part of the User Entity’s Information System</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_40" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.40</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.40</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Entities that engage in financial instrument
transactions frequently outsource tasks related to those transactions
to other entities (for example, broker-dealers, investment advisers,
and custodians). AU-C section 402B refers to such entities as service
organizations and defines a  as an organization or a segment of an organization that provides
services to user entities that are relevant to those user entities’
internal control over financial reporting. A  is defined as an entity that uses a service
organization and whose financial statements are being audited. A  is defined as an auditor who
audits and reports on the financial statements of a user entity.
        <emphasis role="italic">service organization</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">user entity</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">user auditor</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_41" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.41</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.41</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">AU-C section 402B addresses the user auditor’s
responsibility for obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence
in an audit of the financial statements of a user entity. Services
provided by a service organization are relevant to an audit of a user
entity’s financial statements when those services and the controls
over them affect the user entity’s information system, including related
business processes relevant to financial reporting. An entity’s information
system relevant to financial reporting objectives includes the entity’s
accounting system and consists of the procedures and records designed
and established to</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>initiate, authorize, record, process, and report entity
transactions (as well as events and conditions) and maintain accountability
for the related assets, liabilities, and equity.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>resolve incorrect processing of transactions (for
example, automated suspense files and procedures followed to clear
suspense items out on a timely basis).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>process and account for system overrides or bypasses
to controls.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>transfer information from transaction processing systems
to the general ledger.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>capture information relevant to financial reporting
for events and conditions other than transactions.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>ensure that information required to be disclosed by
the applicable financial reporting framework is accumulated, recorded,
processed, summarized, and appropriately reported in the financial
statements.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_42" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.42</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.42</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The following are examples of services
provided by a service organization that may be part of a user entity’s
information system as they relate to the user entity’s financial statement
assertions about financial instruments:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">An example of a service provided by a service
organization that would not be part of an entity’s information system
is the processing of financial instrument transactions by a broker
when the entity retains responsibility for authorizing transactions
and maintaining the related accountability.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>The initiation of the purchase or sale of equity securities
by a service organization acting as investment adviser or manager</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The initiation of hedged positions by a service organization
acting in a capacity to reduce that entity’s risk and performing the
transactions through the entity’s information system</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The initiation of a settlement for an event, such
as a corporate action by an organization providing outsourced administrative
services</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            Services that are ancillary to holding an entity’s financial instruments, such as
            <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
              <para>Maintaining custody of securities, either in physical or electronic
form, is referred to as holding securities, and performing ancillary
services is referred to as servicing securities.</para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>collecting dividend and interest income and distributing
that income to the entity</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>receiving notification of corporate actions</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>receiving notification of security purchase and sale
transactions</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>receiving payments from purchasers and disbursing
proceeds to sellers for security purchase and sale transactions</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>maintaining records of financial instrument transactions
for the entity</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>A pricing service providing fair values of financial
instruments through paper documents for financial statement reporting</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_how_the_use_of" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>How the Use of a Service Organization May Affect the
User Auditor’s Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">How the Use of a Service Organization
May Affect the User Auditor’s Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_43" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.43</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.43</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Use of a service organization’s services
that are part of a user entity’s information system may affect the
nature, timing, and extent of the user auditor’s substantive procedures
related to financial statement assertions about financial instruments.
For example, if supporting documentation, such as derivative contracts
or financial instruments’ purchase and sales advices, is located at
a service organization, it may be necessary for the user auditor or
another auditor to visit the service organization to inspect the documentation.
Also, if investment advisers, holders of financial instruments, recordkeepers,
and other service organizations electronically transmit, process,
maintain, or access significant information about the user entity’s
financial instruments, it may not be practicable or possible for the
user auditor to obtain an understanding of the user entity’s internal
control over financial instruments, assess the risk of material misstatement
for financial statement assertions about financial instruments, and
design and perform further audit procedures to address those risks
without identifying controls placed into operation by the service
organization or user entity and gathering sufficient appropriate evidence
about the operating effectiveness of those controls.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_44" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.44</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.44</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          The case study in , "Case Study of How an Entity’s
Use of a Service Organization Affects the Auditor’s Considerations
in Auditing Financial Instruments," of this guide discusses the effect
on the auditor’s consideration of the risk of material misstatement
of financial statement assertions about financial instruments if one
or more service organizations provides financial instrument services
to the entity under a discretionary arrangement. Those discussions
address the following two types of situations:
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi8">chapter 8</olink>
        </para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Two separate service organizations. In this situation,
one service organization initiates transactions as an investment adviser,
and a second service organization holds and services the financial
instruments. The auditor may corroborate information provided by the
two organizations. For example, the auditor may confirm holdings with
the holder of the financial instruments and apply other substantive
procedures to transactions reported by the user entity based on information
provided by the investment adviser. Depending on the facts and circumstances,
the auditor also may confirm transactions or holdings with the investment
adviser and review the reconciliation of differences. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>One service organization. In this situation, one service
organization initiates transactions as an investment adviser and also
holds and services the financial instruments. All the information
available to the auditor is based on one service organization’s information.
Therefore, the auditor may have to obtain evidence about the operating
effectiveness of the service organization’s controls. The auditor
may be unable to obtain an understanding of the user entity’s internal
control over financial instrument transactions; assess the risk of
material misstatement for financial statement assertions about financial
instruments; and design and perform further audit procedures, including
substantive audit procedures, to address those risks without obtaining
audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of relevant service
organization controls. An example of such controls is establishing
independent departments that provide the investment advisory services
and the holding and servicing of financial instruments, then reconciling
the information about the financial instruments provided by each department.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_45" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.45</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.45</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">If a user entity uses the services of
one or more service organizations, and those services are part of
the user entity’s information system for financial instruments, the
user auditor may be unable to sufficiently limit audit risk for the
completeness assertion with respect to financial instruments without
obtaining audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of controls
at the service organizations. Because derivatives transactions may
not require an initial exchange of tangible consideration, they may
not be recorded; therefore, testing reconciliations of information
provided by two or more service organizations may not sufficiently
limit audit risk for assertions about the completeness of derivatives.
Accordingly, the auditor may need to perform additional audit procedures
at the user entity to address completeness.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_obtaining_an_understanding_of" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Obtaining an Understanding of the Services Provided by
a Service Organization, Including Internal Control</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Obtaining an Understanding of the Services
Provided by a Service Organization, Including Internal Control</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_46" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.46</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.46</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">When auditing the financial statements
of an entity that uses a service organization, the user auditor is
required to obtain an understanding of how the entity uses the services
of the service organization in the entity’s operations, including
the following:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>The nature of the services provided by the service
organization and the significance of those services to the user entity,
including their effect on the user entity’s internal control</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The nature and materiality of the transactions processed
or accounts or financial reporting processes affected by the service
organization</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The degree of interaction between the activities of
the service organization and those of the user entity</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              The nature of the relationship between the user entity
and service organization, including the relevant contractual terms
for the activities undertaken by the service organization
              <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
                <para>
                  Paragraph .09 of AU-C section 402B, .
                  <emphasis role="italic">Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity Using a Service Organization</emphasis>
                </para>
              </footnote>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_47" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.47</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.47</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          The user auditor is required to evaluate
the design and implementation of relevant controls at the user entity
that relate to the service provided by a service organization. If there is a high degree of interaction between the user
entity and service organization, the user entity may be able to implement
effective controls over the services provided by the service organization,
and the user auditor may not need to obtain information about controls
at the service organization. If the user entity has not implemented
effective controls over the service organization’s services, and the
transactions processed or accounts or financial reporting processes
affected by the service organization are material to the user entity’s
financial statements, the user auditor will need to gain an understanding
of relevant controls at the service organization.
          <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
            <para>Paragraph .10 of AU-C section 402B.</para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_48" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.48</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.48</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          A user auditor is required to determine
whether a sufficient understanding of the nature and significance
of the services provided by the service organization and their effect
on the user entity’s internal control relevant to the audit has been
obtained to provide a basis for the identification and assessment
of risks of material misstatement. If the user auditor is unable to obtain (from the user
entity) a sufficient understanding of the nature and significance
of the services provided by the service organization and its effect
on the user entity’s financial statements as they relate to financial
instrument transactions, the user auditor is required to obtain that
understanding from one or more of the following procedures:
          <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
            <para>Paragraph .11 of AU-C section 402B.</para>
          </footnote>
          <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
            <para>Paragraph .12 of AU-C section 402B.</para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          . Obtaining and reading a type 1 or type 2 report, if available
          <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          . Contacting the service organization through the user entity
to obtain specific information
          <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Visiting the service organization and performing procedures that
will provide the necessary information about the relevant controls
at the service organization
          <emphasis role="italic">
            c. 
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          . Using another auditor to perform procedures that will provide
the necessary information about the relevant controls at the service
organization 
          <emphasis role="italic">d</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_using_a_type_1" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Using a Type 1 or Type 2 Report</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Using a Type 1 or Type 2 Report</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_49" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.49</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.49</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          A service organization may engage a service
auditor to examine and report, under , , on a service organization’s description of its system
and on its controls relevant to user entities’ internal control over
financial reporting. Such reports are used by user auditors to obtain
an understanding of controls at the service organization that are
relevant to user entities’ financial statements and also to assess
risk. 
          <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="atc_320">AT-C section 320</olink>
          <emphasis role="italic">Reporting on an Examination of Controls at a Service Organization
Relevant to User Entities’ Internal Control over Financial Reporting</emphasis>
          <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
            <para>
              All AT-C sections can be found in AICPA .
              <emphasis role="italic">
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_50" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.50</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.50</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">A service auditor may perform a type 1
or type 2 engagement. Those engagements and the related practitioner’s
report are summarized as follows:</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Report on management’s description of a service organization’s system
and the suitability of the design of controls (referred to in this
section as a type 1 report). A type 1 report comprises the following:
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          i.Management’s description of
the service organization’s system
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          ii.A written assertion by management
of the service organization about whether, in all material respects
and based on suitable criteria
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_6">
          (1)management’s description of
the service organization’s system fairly presents the service organization’s
system that was designed and implemented as of a specified date
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_6">
          (2)the controls related to the
control objectives stated in management’s description of the service
organization’s system were suitably designed to achieve those control
objectives as of the specified date
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          iii.A service auditor’s report
that expresses an opinion on the matters in (ii)(1)–(2)
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Report on management’s description of a service organization’s system
and the suitability of the design and operating effectiveness of controls
(referred to in this section as a type 2 report). A type 2 report
comprises the following:
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          i.Management’s description of
the service organization’s system
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          ii.A written assertion by management
of the service organization about whether in all material respects
and based on suitable criteria
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_6">
          (1)management’s description of
the service organization’s system fairly presents the service organization’s
system that was designed and implemented throughout the specified
period
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_6">
          (2)the controls related to the
control objectives stated in management’s description of the service
organization’s system were suitably designed throughout the specified
period to achieve those control objectives
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_6">
          (3)the controls related to the
control objectives stated in management’s description of the service
organization’s system operated effectively throughout the specified
period to achieve those control objectives
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          A service auditor’s report that
          <emphasis role="italic">
            c.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          i.expresses an opinion on the
matters in (ii)(1)–(3)
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          ii.includes a description of the
tests of controls and the results thereof
          <tab/>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_51" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.51</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.51</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          The Guide  provides
detailed information about the nature of these engagements and the
content of the reports. 
          <olink targetdoc="aag-aso" targetptr="aag-aso">
            <emphasis role="italic">Service Organizations:
Reporting on Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to User Entities’
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting</emphasis>
          </olink>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_52" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.52</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.52</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          If the user auditor plans to use a type
1 or type 2 report as audit evidence to support the user auditor’s
understanding about the design and implementation of controls at the
service organization, the user auditor should
          <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn10" label="fn 10" role="number">
            <para>Paragraph .14 of AU-C section 402B.</para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          evaluate whether the type 1 report is as of a date or, in the case
of a type 2 report, is for a period that is appropriate for the user
auditor’s purposes.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          evaluate the sufficiency and appropriateness of the evidence provided
by the report for the understanding of the user entity’s internal
control relevant to the audit.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          determine whether complementary user entity controls identified by
the service organization are relevant in addressing the risks of material
misstatement relating to the relevant assertions in the user entity’s
financial statements and, if so, obtain an understanding of whether
the user entity has designed and implemented such controls. 
          <emphasis role="italic">
            c.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_53" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.53</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.53</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">As a practical matter, a type 1 or type
2 report is an efficient way for a user auditor to gain an understanding
of the service organization’s controls over the services provided
by the service organization; obtain information that will enable the
user auditor to assess the risk of material misstatement for assertions
about financial instruments; and, for a type 2 report, determine whether
controls at the service organization are operating effectively.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_54" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.54</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.54</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          If the user auditor is unable to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the services provided
by the service organization relevant to the user entity’s financial
statements, the user auditor should modify the opinion in the auditor’s
report in accordance with AU-C section 705B, .
          <emphasis role="italic">Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn11" label="fn 11" role="number">
            <para>Paragraph .20 of AU-C section 402B.</para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_understanding_the_nature_role" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Understanding the Nature, Role, and Activities of the
Internal Audit Function</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Understanding the Nature, Role, and
Activities of the Internal Audit Function</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_55" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.55</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.55</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In many large entities, the internal audit
function may perform work that enables senior management and those
charged with governance to review and evaluate the entity’s controls
relating to the use of financial instruments. The internal audit function
may assist in identifying the risks of material misstatement due to
fraud or error. However, the knowledge and skills required of an internal
audit function to understand and perform procedures to provide assurance
to management or those charged with governance on the entity’s use
of financial instruments are generally quite different from those
needed for other parts of the business. The extent to which the internal
audit function has the knowledge and skills to cover, and has in fact
covered, the entity’s financial instrument activities, as well as
the competence and objectivity of the internal audit function, is
a relevant consideration in the external auditor’s determination of
whether the internal audit function is likely to be relevant to the
overall audit strategy and audit plan. </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_56" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.56</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.56</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Areas where the work of the internal audit
function may be particularly relevant are as follows:
        <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn12" label="fn 12" role="number">
          <para>Work performed by functions such as the risk management function,
model review functions, and product control may also be relevant.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Developing a general overview of the extent of the
use of financial instruments</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Evaluating the appropriateness of policies and procedures
and management’s compliance with them</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Evaluating the operating effectiveness of financial
instrument control activities</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Evaluating systems relevant to financial instrument
activities</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Assessing whether new risks relating to financial
instruments are identified, assessed, and managed</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_understanding_managements_methodology_for" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Understanding Management’s Methodology for Valuing Financial
Instruments</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Understanding Management’s Methodology
for Valuing Financial Instruments</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_57" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.57</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.57</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Management’s responsibility for the preparation
and fair presentation of the financial statements includes applying
the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework to
the valuation of financial instruments. Paragraph .08 of AU-C section 540B, , requires the auditor to obtain
an understanding of how management makes accounting estimates and
the data on which accounting estimates are based. Management’s approach
to valuation also takes into account the selection of an appropriate
valuation methodology and the level of the evidence expected to be
available. To meet the objective of a fair value measurement, an entity
develops a valuation methodology to measure the fair value of financial
instruments that considers all relevant market information that is
available. A thorough understanding of the financial instrument being
valued allows an entity to identify and evaluate the relevant market
information available about identical or similar instruments that
should be incorporated into the valuation methodology.
        <emphasis role="italic">c</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>