<root id="aag-afi9_control_risk" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Control Risk</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Control Risk</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi9_18" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>9.18</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">9.18</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Martin’s investing department has a history
of investing in debt and equity securities. Controls over the department’s
activities include</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>segregation of duties between purchase and sale transaction
authorization, bookkeeping, and custody.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>reasonably good management oversight.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>supervisory personnel in the department review ongoing
fair value calculations prepared internally and provided by third
parties, mark-to-market adjustments, and related journal entries.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_19" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>9.19</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">9.19</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">However, the purchase of the convertible
bonds is the first transaction of this nature for Martin. Certain
risks associated with accounting for this instrument (for example,
the identification of, and separate accounting for, the embedded derivative
and use of the binomial option-pricing model) are not addressed by
Martin’s existing controls. Although some policies have been put in
place to monitor the status of the convertible bonds, the policies
have not been functioning long enough to determine their effectiveness.
For these reasons, control risk is assessed as high.</para>
  </section>
</root>