<root id="aag-afi7_25" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>7.25</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">7.25</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor defined the following objectives
and related procedures for the audit of assertions about the transaction:</para>
  <table frame="all" id="aag-afi7_table4" role="ps_table_center">
    <title/>
    <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
      <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.97in"/>
      <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="2.99in"/>
      <thead>
        <row>
          <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="bold">
                <emphasis role="italic">Audit Objective</emphasis>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="center" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
            <para>
              <emphasis role="bold">
                <emphasis role="italic">Procedure</emphasis>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
          </entry>
        </row>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>The bond exists and is owned by BEV.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
              <listitem>
                <para>Confirm existence and ownership with the broker-dealer.</para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Management authorized the change in classification of the bond
from available for sale to held to maturity; this includes considerations
relative to the securities’ eligibility to be classified as held to
maturity.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
              <listitem>
                <para>Review minutes of meetings or any applicable internal
memorandums of relevant groups for evidence that management authorized
the change.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>Absent written evidence in the minutes or other documentation,
perform other procedures to determine whether the change was authorized,
such as inquiry or obtaining a representation in the management representation
letter.</para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>The bond’s fair value at the date its classification was changed
was properly determined.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
              <listitem>
                <para>Test the fair value of the bond at the date of reclassification
by agreeing market price to independent published sources.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>Review any notes from periodic pricing meetings with
the traders or management of the entity to determine whether steps
were taken to properly value the bond.</para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>The difference between the bond’s fair value and its face amount
at the date the bond’s classification was changed was properly recorded
and amortized.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
              <listitem>
                <para>Recalculate the difference between the bond’s face
amount and fair value at the date the bond’s classification was changed
to held to maturity. Confirm the assumptions used in the calculation,
including the notional amount and rate of the bond, because these
inputs are used to determine the face amount and fair value.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>Recalculate the amortization of the resulting discount. </para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Management has the positive intent and ability to hold the bond
to maturity.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
              <listitem>
                <para>Review management’s cash flow forecasts, or perform
other procedures considered necessary to assess BEV’s ability to hold
the security to maturity.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>
                  Obtain a representation in the management representation
letter confirming management’s intent to hold the security to maturity.
                  <footnote id="aag-afi7_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
                    <para>
                      A written representation of management’s intent and ability
with regard to held-to-maturity securities does not constitute sufficient
appropriate audit evidence.  of this guide provide additional guidance on the
types of auditing procedures the auditor might perform to corroborate
management’s stated intent and ability to realize that intent.
                      <olink targetptr="aag-afi6_07">Paragraphs
6.07–.08</olink>
                    </para>
                  </footnote>
                </para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
          </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <para>Presentation and disclosure are appropriate.</para>
          </entry>
          <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
            <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
              <listitem>
                <para>
                  Read the financial statements and compare the presentation
and disclosure with the requirements of FASB  320, .
                  <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Debt and Equity Securities</emphasis>
                </para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
          </entry>
        </row>
      </tbody>
    </tgroup>
  </table>
</root>