<root id="aag-afi1_presentation_and_disclosure_about" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Presentation and Disclosure About Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">
      Presentation and Disclosure About Financial
Instruments
      <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
        <para>
          <emphasis role="shade">
            FASB ASU No. 2018-13, , was issued in August 2018. The amendments resulting from this ASU
are effective for all entities for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years; however,
certain disclosures are not required for nonpublic entities. Early
adoption is permitted.
            <emphasis role="italic">Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Disclosure Framework
— Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement</emphasis>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para>
          <emphasis role="shade">
            The amendments in this ASU add,
modify and remove disclosure requirements in FASB ASC 820, related
to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para>
          <emphasis role="shade">
            Application of the guidance in
this ASU is prospective for certain amendments and retrospective for
other amendments. Prospective application is required for only the
most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal
year of adoption for the following: changes in unrealized gains and
losses; the range and weighted average of significant unobservable
inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements; and, the narrative
description of measurement uncertainty. Retrospective application
to all periods presented upon their effective date is required for
all other amendments.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para>
          <emphasis role="shade">
            Readers are encouraged to consult
the full text of this ASU on FASB's website at .
            <tab/>
            <ulink url="http://www.fasb.org">www.fasb.org</ulink>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi1_57" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.57</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.57</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Most financial reporting frameworks require
disclosures in the financial statements to enable users of the financial
statements to make meaningful assessments of the effects of the entity’s
financial instrument activities, including the risks and uncertainties
associated with financial instruments.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_58" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.58</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.58</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Most frameworks require the disclosure
of quantitative and qualitative information (including accounting
policies) relating to financial instruments. The accounting requirements
for fair value measurements in financial statement presentations and
disclosures are extensive in most financial reporting frameworks and
encompass more than just valuation of the financial instruments. For
example, qualitative disclosures about financial instruments provide
important contextual information about the characteristics of the
financial instruments and their future cash flows that may help inform
investors about the risks to which entities are exposed.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_categories_of_disclosures" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Categories of Disclosures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Categories of Disclosures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_59" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.59</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.59</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Disclosure requirements include</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>quantitative disclosures that are derived from the
amounts included in the financial statements (for example, categories
of financial assets and liabilities).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>quantitative disclosures that require significant
judgment (for example, sensitivity analysis for each type of market
risk to which the entity is exposed).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>qualitative disclosures (for example, those that describe
the entity’s governance over financial instruments; objectives; controls,
policies, and processes for managing each type of risk arising from
financial instruments; and the methods used to measure the risks).</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_60" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.60</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.60</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The more sensitive the valuation to movements
in a particular variable, the more likely it is that disclosure will
be necessary to indicate the uncertainties surrounding the valuation.
Financial reporting frameworks may also require disclosure of sensitivity
analyses, including the effects of changes in assumptions used in
the entity’s valuation techniques. For example, the additional disclosures
required for financial instruments with fair value measurements that
are categorized within level 3 inputs of the fair value hierarchy
are aimed at informing users of financial statements about the effects
of those fair value measurements that use the most subjective inputs.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_61" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.61</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.61</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Financial reporting frameworks may require
disclosure of information that enables users of the financial statements
to evaluate the nature and extent of the risks arising from financial
instruments to which the entity is exposed at the reporting date.
The extent of disclosure depends on the extent of the entity’s exposure
to risks arising from financial instruments. This includes qualitative
disclosures about</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>the exposures to risk and how they arise, including
the possible effects on an entity’s future liquidity and collateral
requirements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the entity’s objectives, policies, and processes for
managing the risk and the methods used to measure the risk.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>any changes in exposures to risk or objectives, policies,
or processes for managing risk from the previous period.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_fair_value_disclosures" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Fair Value Disclosures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Fair Value Disclosures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_62" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.62</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.62</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">FASB ASC 820-10-50 discusses the disclosures
required for assets and liabilities measured at fair value. As noted
in FASB ASC 820-10-50-1, the reporting entity should disclose information
that would help users of its financial statements understand and assess
the following:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        For assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value
on a recurring or nonrecurring basis in the statement of financial
position after initial recognition, the valuation techniques and inputs
used to develop those measurements; and
        <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        For recurring fair value measurements using significant unobservable
inputs (Level 3), the effect of the measurements on earnings (or changes
in net assets) or other comprehensive income for the period.
        <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">
        <emphasis role="shade">“Pending Content”
in the FASB ASC indicates that paragraph 1 of FASB ASC 820-10-50 is
superseded by ASU No. 2018-13 and paragraph 1C is added. FASB ASC
820-10-50-1C states that the objective of the disclosure requirements
in the overall subtopic of FASB ASC 820 is to provide users of financial
statements with information about assets and liabilities measured
at fair value in the statement of financial position or disclosed
in the notes to financial statements. The following items are listed
in FASB ASC 820-10-50-1C:</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        <emphasis role="shade">
          The valuation techniques and inputs
that a reporting entity uses to arrive at its measures of fair value,
including judgments and assumptions that the entity makes
          <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        <emphasis role="shade">
          The uncertainty in the fair value
measurements as of the reporting date
          <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        <emphasis role="shade">
          How changes in fair value measurements
affect an entity’s performance and cash flows.
          <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_63" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.63</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.63</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">To meet the objectives noted in the preceding
paragraph, FASB ASC 820-10-50-1A states that a reporting entity should
consider all of the following:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        The level of detail necessary to satisfy the disclosure requirements
        <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        How much emphasis to place on each of the various requirements
        <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        How much aggregation or disaggregation to undertake
        <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Whether users of financial statements need additional information
to evaluate the quantitative information disclosed
        <emphasis role="italic">d.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">If the disclosures set forth in the guidance
are insufficient to meet the objectives in the preceding paragraph,
a reporting entity should disclose additional information necessary
to meet those objectives.</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">
        <emphasis role="shade">“Pending Content”
in the FASB ASC indicates that paragraph 1A of FASB ASC 820-10-50
is superseded by ASU No. 2018-13 and the content is amended and moved
to paragraph 1D. FASB ASC 820-10-50-1D states that a reporting entity
should consider all of the following items when complying with the
disclosure requirements in the overall subtopic of FASB ASC 820. </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        <emphasis role="shade">
          The level of detail necessary to
satisfy the disclosure requirements 
          <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        <emphasis role="shade">
          How much emphasis to place on each
of the various requirements 
          <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        <emphasis role="shade">
          How much aggregation or disaggregation
to undertake 
          <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        <emphasis role="shade">
          Whether users of financial statements
need additional information to evaluate the quantitative information
disclosed.
          <emphasis role="italic">d.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_64" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.64</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.64</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The required disclosures related to fair
value are extensive and detailed. FASB ASC 820-10-50 provides details
of the information that should be disclosed by the reporting entity.
FASB ASC 820-10-50 also provides information on other required disclosures
related to fair value. Paragraphs 99–107 of FASB ASC 820-10-55 provide
illustrative disclosures about fair value measurements.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>