<root id="aag-afi4_39" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>4.39</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">4.39</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s understanding of the reliability
of the process used by the investor entity’s management to determine
estimated fair value is an important element in support of the resulting
amounts and, therefore, affects the nature, timing, and extent of
audit procedures. The auditor may test management’s fair value estimate
as of the balance sheet date by using one or more of the following
approaches. The approach(es) taken may not be the same for all alternative
investments in an investor entity’s portfolio because the nature of
the underlying investments and associated risk, as well as the information
available to management and the auditor, likely will be different
for each alternative investment. The higher the assessed risk of material
misstatement, the greater the need for the auditor to utilize a combination
of the following approaches:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . If the auditor determines that the nature and extent of auditing
procedures should include testing the measurement of the investor
entity’s investment, simply receiving a confirmation from the alternative
investment of the entity’s investments in financial instruments, either
in aggregate or on a security-by-security basis, does not, in and
of itself, constitute sufficient appropriate audit evidence in addressing
the valuation assertion. The extent of the additional audit procedures
is directly related to the assessed risk of material misstatement
of the financial statements.
        <emphasis role="italic">Confirm the alternative investment</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . A confirmation on a security-by-security basis may provide support
of the data used by the investor’s management in its valuation process.
In drafting a confirmation, the auditor may consider requesting a
description of each investment, ownership percentage or shares owned,
and estimated fair value. If detailed information is not available,
the auditor may look to the other data that management used in its
valuation and perform tests on such data. The nature of the tests
depends on the types of data used by management and the auditor’s
assessment of the risk of material misstatement of the financial statements.
        <emphasis role="italic">Review and test the investor
entity’s significant assumptions and the underlying data in its valuation
or analysis of the assumptions and data obtained from the fund manager</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . If audited financial statements
of the alternative investment are available as of the date of the
investor entity’s year-end, and the alternative investment follows
fair value accounting, the audited financial statements and an accompanying
auditor’s report may provide significant audit evidence regarding
the valuation of the investment. However, the investor entity and
fund often have different fiscal year-ends. In lower- or moderate-risk
situations, the auditor might be able to obtain the fund’s audited
financial statements as of the fund’s fiscal year-end and perform
(or arrange to have the fund’s auditor perform) additional procedures
to test the transactions and changes in fair value between the fund’s
fiscal year-end and the investor’s fiscal year-end.
        <emphasis role="italic">Reconcile to audited financial
statements as of the same date</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . Evidence of an actual transaction,
such as an investment in, or liquidation of, a portion of its alternative
investment as of a date close to the investor entity’s fiscal year-end,
may provide information for management to support the valuation of
the alternative investment. The auditor may consider how often settlements
occur and the terms used to determine the value of the settlement.
Issues to consider include whether the process used for the settlement
is the same process used for financial reporting; whether there are
holdbacks or potential true-ups subsequent to the balance sheet date;
and the possibility that the parties to the transactions were not
both willing buyers and sellers, such as in a distress sale.
        <emphasis role="italic">Review transactions at or
near the balance sheet date</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>