<root id="aag-afi_appF_accounting_for_the_hedged" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Accounting for the Hedged Item in Fair Value Hedges of
Interest Rate Risk</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Accounting for the Hedged Item in
Fair Value Hedges of Interest Rate Risk</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">In some cases, current GAAP contains limitations
on how an entity can designate the hedged item in a fair value hedge
of interest rate risk. In other cases, current GAAP contains limitations
on how an entity can measure changes in fair value of the hedged item
attributable to interest rate risk in certain fair value hedging relationships.
Those limitations may not align with an entity’s risk management strategies
or the way in which interest rate risk can be hedged in the cash flow
hedging model. To resolve those issues, the amendments in this ASU
change the guidance for designating fair value hedges of interest
rate risk and for measuring the change in fair value of the hedged
item in fair value hedges of interest rate risk. Specifically, the
amendments:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Permit an entity to measure the change in fair value
of the hedged item on the basis of the benchmark rate component of
the contractual coupon cash flows determined at hedge inception, rather
than on the full contractual coupon cash flows as required by current
GAAP.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Permit an entity to measure the hedged item in a partial-term
fair value hedge of interest rate risk by assuming the hedged item
has a term that reflects only the designated cash flows being hedged.
Current GAAP does not allow this methodology when calculating the
change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to interest
rate risk.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>For prepayable financial instruments, permit an entity
to consider only how changes in the benchmark interest rate affect
a decision to settle a debt instrument before its scheduled maturity
in calculating the change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable
to interest rate risk.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>For a closed portfolio of prepayable financial assets
or one or more beneficial interests secured by a portfolio of prepayable
financial instruments, permit an entity to designate an amount that
is not expected to be affected by prepayments, defaults, and other
events affecting the timing and amount of cash flows (the "last-of-layer"
method). Under this designation, prepayment risk is not incorporated
into the measurement of the hedged item.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>