<root id="aag-afi6_evaluating_the_sufficiency_and" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit
Evidence</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness
of Audit Evidence</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi6_01" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.01</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.01</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Paragraph .18 of AU-C section 540B, , requires
the auditor to evaluate, based on the audit evidence, whether the
accounting estimates in the financial statements are either reasonable
in the context of the applicable financial reporting framework or
misstated.
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value
Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
        <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_02" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.02</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.02</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Based on the audit evidence obtained,
the auditor may conclude that the evidence points to an accounting
estimate that differs from management’s point estimate. When the audit
evidence supports a point estimate, the difference between the auditor’s
point estimate and management’s point estimate constitutes a misstatement.
When the auditor has concluded that using the auditor’s range provides
sufficient appropriate audit evidence, a management point estimate
that lies outside the auditor’s range would not be supported by audit
evidence. In such cases, the misstatement is no less than the difference
between management’s point estimate and the nearest point of the auditor’s
range.
      <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
        <para>
          Paragraph .A122 of AU-C section 540B, .
          <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_03" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.03</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.03</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Further, paragraph .28 of AU-C section
330B, , requires the auditor to conclude whether sufficient appropriate
audit evidence has been obtained. In forming a conclusion, the auditor
is required to consider all relevant audit evidence, regardless of
whether it appears to corroborate or contradict the assertions in
the financial statements.
      <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response
to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_04" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.04</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.04</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The auditor’s professional judgment about
what constitutes sufficient appropriate audit evidence is influenced
by such factors as the
      <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
        <para>
          Paragraph .A75 of AU-C section 330B, .
          <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed Risks and Evaluating
the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>
          significance of the potential misstatement in the
relevant assertion and the likelihood of it having a material effect,
individually or aggregated with other potential misstatements, on
the financial statements. (See AU-C section 450B, .)
          <emphasis role="italic">Evaluation of Misstatements Identified During the Audit</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>effectiveness of management’s responses and controls
to address the risks.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>experience gained during previous audits with respect
to similar potential misstatements.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>results of audit procedures performed, including whether
such audit procedures identified specific instances of fraud or error.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>source and reliability of the available information.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>persuasiveness of the audit evidence.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>understanding of the entity and its environment, including
its internal control.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>