<root id="aag-afi1_pricing_services" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Pricing Services</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Pricing Services</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi1_47" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.47</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.47</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Pricing services provide entities with
prices and price-related data for a variety of financial instruments,
often performing daily valuations of large numbers of financial instruments.
These valuations may be made by collecting market data and prices
from a wide variety of sources, including market makers, and, in certain
instances, by using internal valuation techniques to derive estimated
fair values. Pricing services may combine a number of approaches to
arrive at a price and are often used as a source of prices based on
level 2 inputs. Pricing services may have strong controls around how
prices are developed, and their customers often include a wide variety
of parties, including buy-and-sell side investors, auditors, and others.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_48" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.48</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.48</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Pricing services often have a formalized
process for customers to challenge the prices received from the pricing
services. These challenge processes usually require the customer to
provide evidence to support an alternative price, with challenges
categorized based on the quality of evidence provided. For example,
a challenge based on a recent sale of that instrument the pricing
service was not aware of may be upheld, whereas a challenge based
on a customer’s own valuation technique may be more heavily scrutinized.
In this way, a pricing service with a large number of leading participants,
both buy and sell side, may be able to constantly correct prices to
more fully reflect the information available to market participants.</para>
  </section>
</root>