<root id="aag-afi5_03" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>5.03</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">5.03</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">
    In accordance with paragraph .08 of AU-C section 540B, , the auditor is required to obtain
an understanding of how management makes the accounting estimates
and the data on which they are based, which includes the entity’s
valuation policies and methodology for data and assumptions used in
the valuation methodology. In many cases, the applicable financial reporting framework
does not prescribe the specific valuation methodology. When this is
the case, matters that may be relevant to the auditor’s understanding
of how management values financial instruments include, for example
    <emphasis role="italic">c</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
    <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
      <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
    </footnote>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>whether management has a formal valuation policy and,
if so, whether the valuation technique used for a financial instrument
is appropriately documented in accordance with that policy.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>which models may give rise to the greatest risk of
material misstatement.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>how management considered the complexity of the valuation
of the financial instrument when selecting a particular valuation
technique.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>whether there is a greater risk of material misstatement
because management has internally developed a model to be used to
value financial instruments or is departing from a valuation technique
commonly used to value the particular financial instrument.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>whether management made use of a third-party pricing
source.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>whether those involved in developing and applying
the valuation technique have the appropriate skills and expertise
to do so, including whether management’s specialist has been used.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>whether there are indicators of management bias in
selecting the valuation technique to be used.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>