<root id="aag-afi5_09" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>5.09</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">5.09</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">In testing how management values the financial
instrument and in responding to the assessed risks of material misstatement
in accordance with paragraphs .12–.14 of AU-C section 540B, the auditor
undertakes one or more of the following procedures, taking account
of the nature of the accounting estimates:</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    Many auditors find that a combination of
testing how management valued the financial instrument and the data
on which it is based and testing the operating effectiveness of controls
will be an effective and efficient audit approach. Although subsequent
events may provide some evidence about the valuation of financial
instruments, other factors may need to be taken into account to address
any changes in market conditions subsequent to the balance sheet date. If the auditor is unable to test how management made the
estimate, the auditor may choose to develop a point estimate or range.
    <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
      <para>Paragraphs .A64–.A67 of AU-C section 540B provide examples of
some of the factors that may be relevant.</para>
    </footnote>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Test how management made the accounting estimate and
the data on which it is based (including valuation techniques used
by the entity in its valuations).</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Test the operating effectiveness of the controls over
how management made the accounting estimate, together with appropriate
substantive procedures.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Develop a point estimate or range to evaluate management’s
point estimate.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Determine whether events occurring up to the date
of the auditor’s report provide audit evidence regarding the accounting
estimate.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>