<root id="aag-afi7_05" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>7.05</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">7.05</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">
    According to FASB  (ASC) 320, , BEV should
record the unrealized loss through the date of change in classification
through a $150,000 charge to other comprehensive income and a $150,000
credit directly to the bond. The $650,000 fair value at the date the
classification is changed becomes the bond’s new cost basis. With
the exception of a decline in fair value that is other than temporary,
changes in the fair value of the bond after the change in classification
should only be recognized when they are realized. However, any decline
in value that is other than temporary should be recognized in accordance
with the requirements of paragraphs 34A–34E of FASB ASC 320-10-35.
The measurement of the decline in value (impairment) should not include
partial recoveries after the balance sheet date. The fair value of
the bond would then become the new cost basis and should not be adjusted
for subsequent recoveries in fair value. However, the amortized cost
basis should be adjusted for accretion and amortization as discussed
in FASB ASC 320-10-35-35.
    <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Debt Securities</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_para_number">
    <emphasis role="shade">
      Based on “Pending
Content” (added by Accounting Standards Update No. 2019-04, ) in paragraph 10B of  FASB ASC 320-10-35,
BEV should reclassify and transfer the debt security to the held-to-maturity
category at its amortized cost basis of $650,000 (which is reduced
by any previous write-offs but excludes any allowance for credit losses)
plus or minus the amount of remaining unrealized holding loss reported
in accumulated other comprehensive income. BEV should evaluate the
debt security for an allowance for credit losses by following the
guidance in FASB ASC 326-20, . BEV should
continue to report the unrealized holding loss at the date of the
transfer in a separate component of shareholders’ equity, such as
accumulated other comprehensive income; the loss should be amortized
over the remaining life of the security as an adjustment of yield
in a manner consistent with the amortization of any premium or discount.
      <emphasis role="italic">Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825,
Financial Instruments</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses-Measured at Amortized Cost</emphasis>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
</root>