<root id="aag-afi_appF_classification_and_measurement" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Classification and Measurement</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Classification and Measurement</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi_appF_overview1" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Overview</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Overview</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">
      On January 5, 2016, FASB issued Accounting
Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-01, , to enhance
the reporting model for financial instruments and to provide users
of financial statements with more decision-useful information. Amendments
in the ASU are intended to improve certain aspects of recognition,
measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. 
      <emphasis role="italic">Financial
Instruments — Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement
of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">The new guidance will accomplish the following:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Require equity investments (except those accounted
for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in
consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value with changes
in fair value recognized in net income.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Replace the impairment model for equity investments
without readily determinable fair values with a qualitative impairment
assessment.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Eliminate the requirement to disclose the fair values
of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortized
cost for nonpublic business entities.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Eliminate the requirement for public business entities
to disclose the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate
fair value currently required to be disclosed for financial assets
and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost on the balance
sheet.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Require public business entities to use the exit price
notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for
disclosure purposes.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Require an entity to present separately in other comprehensive
income (OCI) the portion of the total change in the fair value of
a liability resulting from a change in instrument-specific credit
risk when the entity has elected to measure the liability at fair
value in accordance with the fair value option for financial instruments. </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Require separate presentation of financial assets
and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial
asset (that is, securities or loans and receivables) on the balance
sheet or in accompanying notes to the financial statements.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Clarify that an entity should evaluate the need for
a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset related to available-for-sale
debt securities in combination with an entity’s other deferred tax
assets.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Eliminate an entity’s ability to estimate the disclosed
fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis
of entry prices.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_appF_applicability_and_effective_date1" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Applicability and Effective Date</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Applicability and Effective Date</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2016-01 affects all entities that
hold financial assets or have financial liabilities and is effective
as follows:</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">All nonpublic business entities may adopt
the amendments in this ASU earlier as of the fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal
years.</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">Early adoption by public business entities
to financial statements of fiscal years or interim periods that have
not yet been issued or, by all other entities, that have not yet been
made available for issuance of the following amendments in this ASU
are permitted as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption:</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">Except for as stated in this guidance, early
adoption of the amendments in this ASU is not permitted.</para>
    <table frame="all" id="aag-afi_appF_table1" role="ps_table_center">
      <title/>
      <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
        <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1.92in"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="2.17in"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.92in"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
              <para/>
            </entry>
            <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
              <para>
                <emphasis role="italic">
                  <emphasis role="bold">Fiscal Years Beginning
After</emphasis>
                </emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
              <para>
                <emphasis role="italic">
                  <emphasis role="bold">Interim Periods
Within Fiscal Years Beginning After</emphasis>
                </emphasis>
              </para>
            </entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>
              <para>Public business entities </para>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <para>December 15, 2017</para>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <para>December 15, 2017</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>
              <para>All other entities, including not-for-profit entities and employee
benefit plans within the scope of FASB ASC 960 through FASB ASC 965
on plan accounting</para>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <para>December 15, 2018</para>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <para>December 15, 2019</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>An entity should present separately in OCI the portion
of the total change in the fair value of a liability resulting from
a change in the instrument-specific credit risk if the entity has
elected to measure the liability at fair value in accordance with
the fair value option for financial instruments.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          Nonpublic business entities are not required to apply
the fair value of financial instruments disclosure guidance in the
"General" subsection of FASB  (ASC) 825-10-50.
          <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards
Codification</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_appF_latest_developments1" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Latest Developments</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Latest Developments</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi_appF_fasb_asu_no__201803" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2018-03, Technical Corrections and Improvements
to Financial Instruments — Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition
and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2018-03, Technical Corrections
and Improvements to Financial Instruments — Overall (Subtopic 825-10):
Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">In February 2018, FASB issued ASU No. 2018-03
to clarify certain aspects of the guidance issued in ASU No. 2016-01
as follows: </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2018-03 is effective as follows:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Public business entities with fiscal years
beginning between December 15, 2017 and June 15, 2018 are not required
to adopt these amendments until the interim period beginning after
June 15, 2018, and public business entities with fiscal years beginning
between June 15, 2018 and December 15, 2018 are not required to adopt
these amendments before adopting the amendments in ASU No. 2016-01.
All entities may early adopt these amendments for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal
years, as long as they have adopted ASU No. 2016-01.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
             The
amendments in this ASU clarify that an entity measuring an equity
security using the measurement alternative may change its measurement
approach to a fair value method in accordance with FASB ASC 820, , through an irrevocable
election that would apply to that security and all identical or similar
investments of the same issuer. Once an entity makes this election,
the entity should measure all future purchases of identical or similar
investments of the same issuer using a fair value method in accordance
with FASB ASC 820.
            <emphasis role="italic">Equity securities without
a readily determinable fair value — discontinuation.</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Fair Value Measurement</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
             The amendment
in this ASU clarifies that adjustments made under the measurement
alternative are intended to reflect the fair value of the security
as of the date that the observable transaction for a similar security
took place.
            <emphasis role="italic">Equity securities without
a readily determinable fair value — adjustments.</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
             The amendment clarifies that remeasuring the  value of forward contracts and purchased
options is required when observable transactions occur on the underlying
equity securities.
            <emphasis role="italic">Forward contracts and purchased
options.</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">entire</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
             The amendment
clarifies that when the fair value option is elected for a financial
liability, the guidance in paragraph 5 of ASC 825-10-45 should be
applied, regardless of whether the fair value option was elected under
either FASB ASC 815-15 or 825-10.
            <emphasis role="italic">Presentation requirements
for certain fair value option liabilities.</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
             The amendments clarify
that for financial liabilities for which the fair value option is
elected, the amount of change in fair value that relates to the instrument-specific
credit risk should first be measured in the currency of denomination
when presented separately from the total change in fair value of the
financial liability. Then, both components of the change in the fair
value of the liability should be remeasured into the functional currency
of the reporting entity using end-of-period spot rates.
            <emphasis role="italic">Fair value option liabilities
denominated in a foreign currency.</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
             The
amendment clarifies that the prospective transition approach for equity
securities without a readily determinable fair value in the amendments
in ASU No. 2016-01 is meant only for instances in which the measurement
alternative is applied. An insurance entity subject to the guidance
in FASB ASC 944, , should apply a prospective transition method when applying the
amendments related to equity securities without readily determinable
fair values. An insurance entity should apply the selected prospective
transition method consistently to the entity’s entire population of
equity securities for which the measurement alternative is elected.
            <emphasis role="italic">Transition guidance for equity
securities without a readily determinable fair value.</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Financial Services — Insurance</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <table frame="all" id="aag-afi_appF_table2" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1.92in"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="2.17in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.92in"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                <para/>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <emphasis role="bold">Fiscal Years Beginning
After</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" role="shade" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <emphasis role="bold">Interim Periods
Within Fiscal Years Beginning After</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>
                <para>Public business entities </para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2017</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>June 15, 2018</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>
                <para>All other entities</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2018</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>December 15, 2019</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_appF_fasbasu_no__201904" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2019-04, Codification Improvements to Topic
326, Financial Instruments — Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives
and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2019-04, Codification
Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments — Credit Losses,
Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">
        In April 2019, FASB issued ASU No. 2019-04
to clarify, correct, and improve various aspects of the guidance in
ASU Nos. 2016-01, 2016-13, , and 2017-12, , related to financial instruments. The discussion
herein will only address those amendments related to ASU No. 2016-01.
Amendments related to ASU Nos. 2016-13 and ASU No. 2017-12 will be
addressed in subsequent sections of this appendix.
        <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial
Instruments</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives
and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging
Activities</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2019-04 clarifies certain aspects
of the amendments in ASU No. 2016-01 as follows:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
             The amendments clarify
the scope of FASB ASC 320-10 and FASB ASC 321-10 by specifically naming
health and welfare plans accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC
965,  in the paragraphs limiting the scope of
those subtopics.
            <emphasis role="italic">Scope clarifications for FASB
ASC 320-10 and FASB ASC 321-10.</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Plan Accounting — Health and Welfare
Benefit Plans,</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
             The amendments to the disclosure
requirements addressed in FASB ASC 320-10-50-5 and FASB ASC 942-320-50-3
and the additions of paragraphs 5A–5B of FASB ASC 320-10-50 and paragraph
3A of FASB ASC 942-320-50 clarify FASB’s intent to exempt entities
other than public business entities from fair value disclosure requirements
for financial instruments not measured at fair value on the balance
sheet. 
            <emphasis role="italic">Held-to-maturity debt securities
fair value disclosures.</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
             The amendments specifically
require that an entity remeasure an equity security without readily
determinable fair value at fair value when an orderly transaction
is identified for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer
in accordance with FASB ASC 820. That is, the amendments clarify that
the measurement alternative is a nonrecurring fair value measurement.
Additionally, the amendments clarify that an entity should adhere
to the applicable disclosure requirements in FASB ASC 820 for a nonrecurring
fair value measurement.
            <emphasis role="italic">Applicability of FASB ASC
820 to the measurement alternative.</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
             The amendments clarify that
equity securities without readily determinable fair values accounted
for under the measurement alternative in accordance with FASB ASC
321-10-35-2 are required to follow FASB ASC 830-10-45-18, which requires
remeasurement at historical exchange rates. In addition, the amendments
clarify that the rate used should be the historical exchange rate
as of the later of the acquisition date or the most recent date on
which the equity security was adjusted to fair value in accordance
with paragraphs 2–3 of FASB ASC 321-10-35, if applicable. In addition,
the amendments to FASB ASC 830-10-45-18 are not intended to change
items that should be remeasured at historical exchange rates. 
            <emphasis role="italic">Remeasurement of equity securities
at historical exchange rates.</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi_appF_effective_date1" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Effective Date</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Effective Date</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">The amendments in ASU No. 2019-04 related
to No. 2016-01 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early
adoption is permitted in any interim period following the issuance
of ASU No. 2019-04 as long as the entity has adopted all of the amendments
in ASU No. 2016-01.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>