<root id="aag-afi1_other_controls_over_completeness" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Other Controls Over Completeness, Accuracy, and Existence</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Other Controls Over Completeness, Accuracy,
and Existence</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi1_21" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.21</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.21</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The complexity inherent in some financial
instruments means it will not always be obvious how they should be
recorded in the entity’s systems. In such cases, management may set
up control processes to monitor policies that prescribe how particular
types of transactions are measured, recorded, and accounted for. These
policies are typically established and reviewed in advance by suitably
qualified personnel who are capable of understanding the full effects
of the financial instruments being booked.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_22" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.22</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.22</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Some transactions may be cancelled or
amended after initial execution. Application of appropriate controls
relating to cancellation or amendment can mitigate the risks of material
misstatement due to fraud or error. In addition, an entity may have
a process in place to reconfirm trades that are cancelled or amended.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_23" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.23</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.23</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In financial institutions with a high
volume of trading, a senior employee typically reviews daily profits
and losses on individual traders’ books to evaluate whether they are
reasonable based on the employee’s knowledge of the market. Doing
so may enable management to determine that particular trades were
not completely or accurately recorded or may identify fraud by a particular
trader. It is important that transaction authorization procedures
exist that support the more senior review.</para>
  </section>
</root>