<root id="aag-afi_appF_fasb_asu_no_201904" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2019-04</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2019-04</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">In April 2019, FASB issued ASU No. 2019-04
to clarify, correct, and improve various aspects of the guidance in
ASU Nos. 2016-01, 2016-13, and 2017-12 related to financial instruments.
The discussion herein will only address those amendments related to
ASU No. 2016-13. Amendments related to ASU No. 2016-01 and ASU No.
2017-12 will be addressed in separate sections of this appendix.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2019-04 clarifies certain aspects
of the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13 as follows:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . The amendments to FASB ASC 326-20 allow an entity to do the following:
        <emphasis role="italic">Accrued interest</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>Measure the allowance for credit losses on accrued
interest receivable balances separately from other components of the
amortized cost basis of associated financial assets.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Make an accounting policy election not to measure
an allowance for credit losses on accrued interest receivable amounts
if an entity writes off the uncollectible accrued interest receivable
balance in a timely manner and makes certain disclosures.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Make an accounting policy election to write off accrued
interest amounts by reversing interest income or recognizing credit
loss expense, or a combination of both. The entity also is required
to make certain disclosures.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Make an accounting policy election to present accrued
interest receivable balances and the related allowance for credit
losses for those accrued interest receivable balances separately from
the associated financial assets on the balance sheet. If the accrued
interest receivable balances and the related allowance for credit
losses are not presented as a separate line item on the balance sheet,
an entity should disclose the amount of accrued interest receivable
balances and the related allowance for credit losses and where the
balance is presented.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Elect a practical expedient to disclose separately
the total amount of accrued interest included in the amortized cost
basis as a single balance to meet certain disclosure requirements.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments
require that an entity reverse in earnings any allowance for credit
losses or valuation allowance previously measured on a loan or debt
security, reclassify and transfer the loan or debt security to the
new classification or category, and apply the applicable measurement
guidance in accordance with the new classification or category.
        <emphasis role="italic">Transfers between classification
or categories for loans and debt securities.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The
amendments clarify that an entity should include recoveries when estimating
the allowance for credit losses. In addition, expected recoveries
of amounts previously written off and expected to be written off should
be included in the valuation account and should not exceed the aggregate
of amounts previously written off and expected to be written off by
the entity. For collateral-dependent financial assets, an allowance
for credit losses that is added to the amortized cost basis of the
financial assets should not exceed amounts previously written off.
        <emphasis role="italic">Recoveries.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         Correction of incorrect cross-referencing and further clarification
surrounding the equity method losses allocation guidance.
        <emphasis role="italic">Conforming amendments.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The
amendment clarifies FASB’s intent to include all reinsurance recoverables
within the scope of FASB ASC 944 within the scope of FASB ASC 326-20,
regardless of the measurement basis of those recoverables.
        <emphasis role="italic">Clarification that reinsurance
recoverables are within the scope of FASB ASC 326-20.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The
amendments clarify FASB’s intent to provide flexibility in determining
the allowance for credit losses by removing the prohibition of using
projections of future interest rate environments when using a discounted
cash flow method to measure expected credit losses on variable-rate
financial instruments. Furthermore, an entity that uses projections
or expectations of future interest rate environments in estimating
expected cash flows should use the same assumptions in determining
the effective interest rate used to discount those expected cash flows.
The amendments also clarify that if an entity uses projections of
future interest rate environments when using a discounted cash flow
method to measure expected credit losses on variable-rate financial
instruments, it also should adjust the effective interest rate to
consider the timing (and changes in the timing) of expected cash flows
resulting from expected prepayments.
        <emphasis role="italic">Projections of interest rate
environments for variable-rate financial instruments.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments
permit an entity to make an accounting policy election to adjust the
effective interest rate used to discount expected future cash flows
for expected prepayments on financial assets within the scope of FASB
ASC 326-20 and on available-for-sale debt securities within the scope
of FASB ASC 326-20 to appropriately isolate credit risk in determining
the allowance for credit losses. Furthermore, an entity should not
adjust the effective interest rate used to discount expected cash
flows for subsequent changes in expected prepayment if the financial
asset is restructured in a TDR.
        <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of prepayments
in determining the effective interest rate.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments
clarify the guidance in FASB ASC 326-20-35-4 by specifically requiring
that an entity consider the estimated costs to sell if it intends
to sell rather than operate the collateral when the entity determines
that foreclosure on a financial asset is probable. Additionally, when
an entity adjusts the fair value of collateral for the estimated costs
to sell, the estimated costs to sell should be undiscounted if the
entity intends to sell rather than operate the collateral.
        <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of estimated
costs to sell when foreclosure is probable.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments require
that an entity present the amortized cost basis of line-of-credit
arrangements that are converted to term loans in a separate column.
        <emphasis role="italic">Vintage disclosures — line-of-credit
arrangements converted to term loans.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments clarify that an entity should
consider extension or renewal options (excluding those that are accounted
for as derivatives in accordance with FASB ASC 815, ) that are included
in the original or modified contract at the reporting date and are
not unconditionally cancellable by the entity.
        <emphasis role="italic">Contractual extensions and
renewals.</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>