<root id="aag-afi4_timing_of_the_auditors" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Timing of the Auditor’s Procedures</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">
      Timing of the Auditor’s Procedures
      <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
        <para>
          Paragraphs .12 and .23–.24 of AU-C section 330B, , establish
requirements when the auditor performs procedures at an interim period
and explain how such audit evidence can be used.
          <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed
Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi4_17" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.17</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.17</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">After assessing the risks associated with
financial instruments, the engagement team determines the timing of
planned tests of controls and substantive audit procedures. The timing
of planned audit procedures varies depending on a number of factors,
including the frequency of the control operation, the significance
of the activity being controlled, and the related risk of material
misstatement. </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_18" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.18</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.18</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Although the auditor may decide that the
most efficient and effective strategy is to undertake most of the
audit procedures in relation to valuation and presentation close to
period-end, audit procedures in relation to other assertions, such
as completeness and existence, may be tested at an interim period.
For example, tests of controls may be performed at an interim period
for more routine controls, such as IT controls and authorizations
for new products. Also, it may be effective to test the operating
effectiveness of controls over new product approval by gathering evidence
at an interim period of the appropriate level of management sign-off
on a new financial instrument.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_19" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.19</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.19</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Auditors may perform some tests on models
as of an interim date (for example, by comparing the output of the
model with market transactions). Another possible interim procedure
for instruments with observable inputs is to test the reasonableness
of the pricing information provided by a third-party pricing source. </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_20" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.20</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.20</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Areas of more significant judgment are
often tested close to, or at, period-end because</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>valuations can change significantly in a short period
of time, making it difficult to compare and reconcile interim balances
with comparable information at the balance sheet date.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>an entity may engage in an increased volume of financial
instrument transactions between an interim period and year-end.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>manual journal entries may only be made after the
end of the accounting period.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>nonroutine or significant transactions may take place
late in the accounting period.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>