<root id="aag-afi1_valuation_of_financial_instruments" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Valuation of Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Valuation of Financial Instruments</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi1_financial_reporting_requirements" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Financial Reporting Requirements</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Financial Reporting Requirements</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_24" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.24</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.24</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In many financial reporting frameworks,
financial instruments, including embedded derivatives, are often measured
at fair value for the purpose of balance sheet presentation, calculating
gain or loss, or disclosure. In general, the objective of fair value
measurement is to arrive at the price at which an orderly transaction
to sell an asset or transfer a liability would take place between
market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions
(that is, at an exit price at the measurement date from the perspective
of the market participant that holds the asset or owes the liability).
In meeting this objective, all relevant available market information
is taken into account.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_25" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.25</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.25</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Fair value measurements of financial assets
and liabilities may arise both at the initial recording of transactions
and later when there are changes in value. Changes in fair value measurements
that occur over time may be treated in different ways under different
financial reporting frameworks. For example, such changes may be recorded
as gain or loss or in other comprehensive income. Also, depending
on the applicable financial reporting framework, the whole financial
instrument or only a component of it (for example, an embedded derivative
when it is separately accounted for) may be required to be measured
at fair value. , "Valuation
of Financial Instruments," of this guide provides further detailed
guidance on valuation of financial instruments.
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi5">Chapter 5</olink>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_26" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.26</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.26</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Some financial reporting frameworks establish
a fair value hierarchy to develop increased consistency and comparability
in fair value measurements and related disclosures. The inputs may be classified into different levels, such
as
        <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
          <para>FASB ASC 820-10-35-37 notes that the fair value hierarchy categorizes
into three levels the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure
fair value. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to
quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets
or liabilities and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs. </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">In general, measurement uncertainty increases
as a financial instrument moves from level 1 to level 2 or level 2
to level 3. Also, within level 2, there may be a wide range of measurement
uncertainty depending on the observability of inputs, the complexity
and valuation of the financial instrument, and other factors.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,
which are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
financial assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the
measurement date.
            <emphasis role="italic">level 1 inputs</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,
which are inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1
that are observable for the financial asset or liability either directly
or indirectly. If the financial asset or liability has a specified
(contractual) term, a level 2 input must be observable for substantially
the full term of the financial asset or liability. Level 2 inputs
include the following:
            <emphasis role="italic">level 2 inputs</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>Quoted prices for similar financial assets or liabilities
in active markets</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Quoted prices for identical or similar financial assets
or liabilities in markets that are not active</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable
for the financial asset or liability (for example, interest rates
and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals, implied
volatilities, and credit spreads)</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Inputs that are derived principally from, or corroborated
by, observable market data by correlation or other means (market-corroborated
inputs)</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,
which are unobservable inputs for the financial asset or liability.
Unobservable inputs are used to measure fair value to the extent that
relevant observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for
situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the
financial asset or liability at the measurement date.
            <emphasis role="italic">level 3 inputs</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_27" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.27</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.27</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Certain financial reporting frameworks
may require or permit the entity to adjust for measurement uncertainties
in order to adjust for risks that a market participant would make
in the pricing to take account of the uncertainties of the risks associated
with the pricing or cash flows of the financial instrument. Some examples
are as follows:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">
        Adjustments are not appropriate if they adjust
the measurement and valuation of the financial instrument away from , as defined by the applicable
financial reporting framework (for example, for conservatism).
        <emphasis role="italic">fair value</emphasis>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Model adjustments. Some models may have a known deficiency,
or the result of calibration may highlight the deficiency for the
fair value measurement in accordance with the financial reporting
framework.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Credit-risk adjustments. Some models do not take into
account credit risk, including counterparty risk or own credit risk.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Liquidity adjustments. Some models calculate a midmarket
price, even though the financial reporting framework may require use
of a liquidity-adjusted amount, such as a bid-offer spread. Another,
more judgmental liquidity adjustment recognizes that some financial
instruments are illiquid, which affects the valuation.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Other risk adjustments. A value measured using a model
that does not take into account all other factors that market participants
would consider in pricing the financial instrument may not represent
fair value on the measurement date and, therefore, may need to be
adjusted separately to comply with the applicable financial reporting
framework.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_28" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.28</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.28</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Paragraphs 5–20 of FASB ASC 820-10-55
describe the use of present value techniques to measure fair value.
Those paragraphs neither prescribe the use of a single specific present
value technique nor limit the use of present value techniques to measure
fair value to the techniques discussed therein.  (that is, an application of the income approach)
is a tool used to link future amounts to a present amount using a
discount rate. A fair value measurement of an asset or a liability
using a present value technique captures all of the following elements
from the perspective of market participants at the measurement date:
        <emphasis role="italic">Present value</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        An estimate of future cash flows for the asset or liability
being measured.
        <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Expectations about possible variations in the amount and timing
of the cash flows representing the uncertainty inherent in the cash
flows.
        <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        The time value of money, represented by the rate on risk-free
monetary assets that have maturity dates or durations that coincide
with the period covered by the cash flows and pose neither uncertainty
in timing nor risk of default to the holder (that is, a risk-free
interest rate). For present value computations denominated in nominal
U.S. dollars, the yield curve for U.S. Treasury securities determines
the appropriate risk-free interest rate.
        <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        The price for bearing the uncertainty inherent in the cash
flows (that is, a risk premium).
        <emphasis role="italic">d.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Other factors that market participants would take into account
in the circumstances.
        <emphasis role="italic">e.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        For a liability, the nonperformance risk relating to that liability,
including the reporting entity’s (obligor’s) own credit risk.
        <emphasis role="italic">f.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_observable_and_unobservable_inputs" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Observable and Unobservable Inputs</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Observable and Unobservable Inputs</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_29" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.29</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.29</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">As previously mentioned, inputs are often
categorized according to the degree of observability. As activity
in a market for financial instruments and the observability of inputs
decline, measurement uncertainty increases. The nature and reliability
of information available to support valuation of financial instruments
varies depending on the observability of inputs to its measurement,
which is influenced by the nature of the market (for example, the
level of market activity and whether the activity is through an exchange
or OTC market). Accordingly, a continuum of the nature and reliability
of evidence used to support valuation exists, and it becomes more
difficult for management to obtain information to support a valuation
when markets become inactive and inputs become less observable.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_30" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.30</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.30</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">When observable inputs are not available,
an entity uses unobservable inputs (level 3 inputs) that reflect the
assumption that market participants would use when pricing the financial
asset or liability, including assumptions about risk. Unobservable
inputs are developed using the best information available in the circumstances.
In developing unobservable inputs, an entity may begin with its own
data that is adjusted if reasonably available information indicates
that other market participants would use different data.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_effects_of_inactive_markets" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Effects of Inactive Markets</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Effects of Inactive Markets</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_31" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.31</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.31</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Measurement uncertainty increases and
valuation is more complicated when the markets in which financial
instruments or their component parts are traded become inactive. No
clear point exists at which an active market becomes inactive, though
financial reporting frameworks may provide guidance on this issue.
Characteristics of an inactive market include a significant decline
in the volume and level of trading activity, and available prices
vary significantly over time or among market participants, or the
prices are not current. However, assessing whether a market is inactive
requires judgment.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_32" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.32</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.32</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        When markets are inactive, quoted prices
may be stale (that is, out of date); may not represent prices at which
market participants may trade; or may represent forced transactions
(such as [] when a seller is required
to sell an asset to meet regulatory or legal requirements or needs
to dispose of an asset immediately to create liquidity or [] the existence of a single potential buyer
as a result of the legal or time restrictions imposed). Accordingly,
valuations may be developed based on level 2 and level 3 inputs. Under
such circumstances, entities may have
        <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>a valuation policy that includes a process for determining
whether level 1 inputs are available.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>an understanding of how particular prices or inputs
from external sources used as inputs to valuation techniques were
calculated in order to assess their reliability. For example, in an
active market, a broker quote on a financial instrument that has not
traded is likely to reflect actual transactions on a similar financial
instrument, but as the market becomes less active, the broker quote
may rely more on proprietary valuation techniques to determine prices.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>an understanding of how deteriorating business conditions
affect the counterparty, as well as whether deteriorating business
conditions in entities similar to the counterparty may indicate that
the counterparty may not fulfill its obligations (that is, nonperformance
risk).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>policies for adjusting for measurement uncertainties.
Such adjustments can include model adjustments, lack of liquidity
adjustments, credit risk adjustments, and other risk adjustments.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the capability to calculate the range of realistic
outcomes, given the uncertainties involved (for example by performing
a sensitivity analysis).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>policies for identifying when a fair value measurement
input moves to a different level of the fair value hierarchy.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_33" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.33</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.33</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Particular difficulties may develop when
severe curtailment or even cessation of trading in particular financial
instruments exists. In these circumstances, financial instruments
that have previously been valued using market prices may need to be
valued using a model.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_managements_valuation_process" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Management’s Valuation Process</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Management’s Valuation Process</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_34" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.34</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.34</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Techniques that management may use to
value the entity’s financial instruments include observable prices,
recent transactions, and models that use observable or unobservable
inputs. Management may also make use of a</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Third-party pricing sources and valuation
specialists may use one or more of these valuation techniques.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>third-party pricing source, such as a pricing service
or broker quote.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>valuation specialist.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_35" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.35</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.35</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In many financial reporting frameworks,
the best evidence of a financial instrument’s fair value is found
in contemporaneous transactions in an active market (that is, level
1 inputs). In such cases, the valuation of a financial instrument
may be relatively simple. Quoted prices for financial instruments
that are listed on exchanges or traded in liquid OTC markets may be
available from sources such as financial publications, the exchanges
themselves, or third-party pricing sources. When using quoted prices,
it is important that management understand the basis on which the
quote is given to ensure that the price reflects market conditions
at the measurement date. Quoted prices obtained from publications
or exchanges may provide sufficient evidence of fair value when, for
example, the</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>prices are not out of date or "stale" (for example,
if the quote is based on the last traded price, and the trade occurred
some time ago).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>quotes are prices at which dealers would actually
trade the financial instrument with sufficient frequency and volume.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_36" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.36</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.36</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">When no current observable market price
for the financial instrument (that is, a level 1 input) exists, it
will be necessary for the entity to gather other price indicators
to use in a valuation technique to value the financial instrument.
Price indicators may include</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>recent transactions, including transactions after
the date of the financial statements in the same instrument. Consideration
is given to whether an adjustment needs to be made for changes in
market conditions between the measurement date and the date the transaction
was made because these transactions are not necessarily indicative
of the market conditions that existed at the date of the financial
statements. In addition, it is possible the transaction represents
a forced transaction and, therefore, is not indicative of a price
in an orderly trade.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>current or recent transactions in similar instruments,
often known as proxy pricing. Adjustments will need to be made to
the price of the proxy to reflect the differences between it and the
instrument being priced (for example, to take account of differences
in liquidity or credit risk between the two instruments).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>indexes for similar instruments. As with transactions
in similar instruments, adjustments will need to be made to reflect
the difference between the instrument being priced and the instrument(s)
from which the index used is derived.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>transactions in the financial instrument occurring
on thinly traded markets, such as OTC or bulletin board exchanges.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_37" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.37</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.37</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Management is expected to document its
valuation policies and model used to value a particular financial
instrument, including the rationale for the model(s) used, the selection
of assumptions in the valuation methodology, and the entity’s consideration
of whether adjustments for measurement uncertainty are necessary. </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_models" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Models</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Models</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_38" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.38</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.38</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Models may be used to value financial
instruments when the price cannot be directly observed in the market.
Models can be as simple as a commonly used bond pricing formula or
involve complex, specifically developed software tools to value financial
instruments with level 3 inputs. Many models are based on discounted
cash flow calculations. </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_39" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.39</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.39</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Examples of models that are often used
are Black-Scholes, which is frequently used for option pricing, and
the zero-coupon method, which is often used for estimating the fair
value of interest rate swaps. , "Information About the Black-Scholes Valuation Model,"
and , "Information
About the Zero-Coupon Valuation Model," of this guide provide more
information about the Black-Scholes and zero-coupon method.
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appD">Appendix
D</olink>
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appE">appendix E</olink>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_40" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.40</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.40</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Models comprise a methodology, assumptions,
and data. The methodology describes rules or principles governing
the relationship between the variables in the valuation. Assumptions
include estimates of uncertain variables that are used in the model.
Data may comprise actual or hypothetical information about the financial
instrument or other inputs to the financial instrument.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_41" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.41</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.41</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Depending on the circumstances, matters
that the entity may address when establishing or validating a model
for a financial instrument include whether</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>the model is validated prior to usage, with periodic
reviews to ensure that it is still suitable for its intended use.
The entity’s validation process may include evaluation of the</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>methodology’s theoretical soundness and mathematical
integrity, including the appropriateness of parameters and sensitivities.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>consistency and completeness of the model’s inputs
with market practices and whether the appropriate inputs are available
for use in the model.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>appropriate change control policies, procedures, and
security controls over the model exist.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the model is appropriately changed or adjusted on
a timely basis for changes in market conditions.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the model is periodically calibrated, reviewed, and
tested for validity by a separate and objective function. Doing so
is a means of ensuring that the model’s output is a fair representation
of the value that marketplace participants would ascribe to a financial
instrument.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the model maximizes the use of relevant observable
inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>adjustments are made to the output of the model to
reflect the assumptions that marketplace participants would use in
similar circumstances.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the model is adequately documented, including the
model’s intended applications and limitations and its key parameters,
required data, results of any validation analysis performed, and any
adjustments made to the output of the model.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_an_example_of_a" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>An Example of a Common Financial Instrument</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">An Example of a Common Financial Instrument</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_42" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.42</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.42</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          The following describes how models may
be applied to value a common financial instrument, known as an asset-backed
security. Because asset-backed securities are often valued based
on level 2 or level 3 inputs, they are frequently valued using models
and involve understanding the
          <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
            <para>
              An  is
a financial instrument that is backed by a pool of underlying assets
(known as the collateral, such as credit card receivables or vehicle
loans) and that derives value and income from those underlying assets.
              <emphasis role="italic">asset-backed security</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>type of security, considering the underlying collateral
and the terms of the security. The underlying collateral is used to
estimate the timing and amounts of cash flows, such as mortgage or
credit card interest and principal payments.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>terms of the security. This includes evaluating contractual
cash flow rights, such as the order of repayment, and any default
events. The order of repayment, often known as seniority, refers to
terms that require that some classes of security holders (senior debt)
are repaid before others (subordinated debt). The rights of each class
of security holder to the cash flows, frequently referred to as the
cash flow "waterfall," together with assumptions of the timing and
amount of cash flows, are used to derive a set of estimated cash flows
for each class of security holder. The expected cash flows are then
discounted to derive an estimated fair value.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_43" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.43</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.43</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The cash flows of an asset-backed security
may be affected by prepayments of the underlying collateral and potential
default risk and resulting estimated loss reserves. Prepayment assumptions,
if applicable, are generally based on evaluating market interest rates
for similar collateral to the rates on the collateral underlying the
security. For example, if market interest rates for mortgages have
declined, then the underlying mortgages in a security may experience
higher prepayment rates than originally expected. Estimating potential
default and loss reserve involves close evaluation of the underlying
collateral and borrowers to estimate default rates. For example, when
the underlying collateral comprises residential mortgages, loss reserves
may be affected by estimates of residential housing prices over the
term of the security.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_third_party_pricing_sources" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Third-Party Pricing Sources</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Third-Party Pricing Sources</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_44" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.44</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.44</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Entities may use third-party pricing sources
in order to obtain fair value information. The preparation of an entity’s
financial statements, including the valuation of financial instruments
and the preparation of financial statement disclosures relating to
these instruments, may require expertise that management does not
possess. Entities may not be able to develop appropriate valuation
techniques, including models that may be used in a valuation, and
may use a third-party pricing source to arrive at a valuation or provide
disclosures for the financial statements. This may particularly be
the case in smaller entities or entities that do not engage in a high
volume of financial instrument transactions (for example, nonfinancial
institutions with treasury departments). Even though management has
used a third-party pricing source, management is ultimately responsible
for the valuation and establishing internal control over the valuation
process.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_45" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.45</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.45</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Third-party pricing sources may also be
used because the volume of financial instruments to price over a short
time frame may not be possible by the entity. This is often the case
for traded investment funds that must determine a net asset value
each day. In other cases, management may have its own pricing process
but use third-party pricing sources to corroborate its own valuations.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_46" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.46</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.46</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">For one or more of these reasons, most
entities use third-party pricing sources when valuing financial instruments
either as a primary source or a source of corroboration for their
own valuations. Third-party pricing sources generally fall into the
following categories:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Pricing services, including consensus pricing services</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Brokers providing broker quotes</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_pricing_services" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Pricing Services</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Pricing Services</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_47" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.47</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.47</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Pricing services provide entities with
prices and price-related data for a variety of financial instruments,
often performing daily valuations of large numbers of financial instruments.
These valuations may be made by collecting market data and prices
from a wide variety of sources, including market makers, and, in certain
instances, by using internal valuation techniques to derive estimated
fair values. Pricing services may combine a number of approaches to
arrive at a price and are often used as a source of prices based on
level 2 inputs. Pricing services may have strong controls around how
prices are developed, and their customers often include a wide variety
of parties, including buy-and-sell side investors, auditors, and others.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_48" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.48</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.48</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Pricing services often have a formalized
process for customers to challenge the prices received from the pricing
services. These challenge processes usually require the customer to
provide evidence to support an alternative price, with challenges
categorized based on the quality of evidence provided. For example,
a challenge based on a recent sale of that instrument the pricing
service was not aware of may be upheld, whereas a challenge based
on a customer’s own valuation technique may be more heavily scrutinized.
In this way, a pricing service with a large number of leading participants,
both buy and sell side, may be able to constantly correct prices to
more fully reflect the information available to market participants.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_consensus_pricing_services" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Consensus Pricing Services</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Consensus Pricing Services</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_49" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.49</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.49</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Some entities may use pricing data from
consensus pricing services, which differ from other pricing services.
Consensus pricing services obtain pricing information about an instrument
from several participating entities (subscribers). Each subscriber
submits prices to the pricing service. The pricing service treats
this information confidentially and returns to each subscriber the
consensus price, which is usually an arithmetical average of the data
after a data-cleansing routine has been employed to eliminate outliers.
For some markets, such as exotic derivatives, consensus prices might
constitute the best available data. However, many factors are considered
when assessing the representational faithfulness of the consensus
prices, including, for example</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>whether the prices submitted by the subscribers reflect
actual transactions or just indicative prices based on their own valuation
techniques.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the number of sources from which prices have been
obtained.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the quality of the sources used by the consensus pricing
service.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>whether participants include leading market participants.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_50" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.50</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.50</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Typically, consensus prices are only available
to subscribers who have submitted their own prices to the service.
Accordingly, not all entities will have direct access to consensus
prices. Because a subscriber generally cannot know how the prices
submitted were estimated, other sources of evidence in addition to
information from consensus pricing services may be needed for management
to support its valuation. In particular, this may be the case if the
sources are providing indicative prices based on their own valuation
techniques, and management is unable to obtain an understanding of
how these sources calculated their prices.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_brokers_providing_broker_quotes" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Brokers Providing Broker Quotes</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Brokers Providing Broker Quotes</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_51" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.51</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.51</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Because brokers provide quotes only as
an incidental service for their clients, quotes they provide differ
in many respects from prices obtained in pricing services. Brokers
may be unwilling to provide information about the process used to
develop their quote but may have access to information on transactions
about which a pricing service may not be aware. Broker quotes may
be executable or indicative.  are a broker’s best estimate of fair value, whereas an executable
quote shows that the broker is willing to transact at this price.
Executable quotes are strong evidence of fair value. Indicative quotes
are less so because of the lack of transparency into the methods used
by the broker to establish the quote. In addition the rigor of controls
over the brokers’ quote often will differ depending on whether the
broker also holds the same security in his or her own portfolio. Broker
quotes are often used for financial instruments with level 3 inputs
and sometimes may be the only external information available.
          <emphasis role="italic">Indicative quotes</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_further_considerations_relating_to" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Further Considerations Relating to Third-Party Pricing
Sources</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Further Considerations Relating to
Third-Party Pricing Sources</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_52" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.52</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.52</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Understanding how the pricing sources
calculated a price enables management to determine whether such information
is suitable for use in its valuation, including as an input to a valuation
technique and in what level of inputs the security should be categorized
for disclosure purposes. For example, third-party pricing sources
may value financial instruments using proprietary models, and it is
important that management understands the methodology, assumptions,
and data used.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_53" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.53</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.53</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">If fair value measurements obtained from
third-party pricing sources are not based on the current prices of
an active market, it will be necessary for management to evaluate
whether the fair value measurements were derived in a manner that
is consistent with the applicable financial reporting framework. Management’s
understanding of the fair value measurement may include</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">Understanding the bases on which third-party
pricing sources have determined their quotes in the context of the
particular financial instruments held by the entity assists management
in evaluating the relevance and reliability of this evidence to support
its valuations.</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>how the fair value measurement was determined (for
example, whether the fair value measurement was determined by a valuation
technique in order to assess whether it is consistent with the fair
value measurement objective).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>whether the quotes are indicative prices, indicative
spread, or binding offers.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>how frequently the fair value measurement is estimated
by the third-party pricing sources in order to assess whether it reflects
market conditions at the measurement date.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_54" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.54</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.54</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Disparities may exist between price indicators
from different sources. Understanding how the price indicators were
derived and investigating these disparities assists management in
corroborating the evidence used in developing its valuation of financial
instruments in order to evaluate whether the valuation is reasonable.
Simply taking the average of the quotes provided without doing further
research may not be appropriate because one price in the range may
be the most representative of fair value, and this may not be the
average. To evaluate whether its valuations of financial instruments
are reasonable, management may</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>consider whether actual transactions represent forced
transactions rather than transactions between willing buyers and sellers.
This may invalidate the price as a comparison.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>analyze the expected future cash flows of the instrument.
This could be performed as an indicator of the most relevant pricing
data.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>depending on the nature of what is unobservable, extrapolate
from observed prices to unobserved ones (for example, there may be
observed prices for maturities up to 10 years but not longer, but
the 10-year price curve may be capable of being extrapolated beyond
10 years as an indicator). Care is needed to ensure that extrapolation
is not carried so far beyond the observable curve that its link to
observable prices becomes too tenuous to be reliable.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>compare prices within a portfolio of financial instruments
with each other to make sure they are consistent among similar financial
instruments.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>use more than one model to corroborate the results
from each one, considering the data and assumptions used in each.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>evaluate movements in the prices for related hedging
instruments and collateral.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_use_of_valuation_specialists" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Use of Valuation Specialists</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Use of Valuation Specialists</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_55" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.55</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.55</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Management may engage a valuation specialist
from an investment bank, a broker, or another valuation firm to value
some or all of the entity’s financial instruments. Unlike pricing
services and broker quotes, generally, the methodology and data used
are more readily available to management when it has engaged a specialist
to perform a valuation on its behalf. Even though management has engaged
a specialist, management is ultimately responsible for the valuation
used.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_issues_related_to_financial" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Issues Related to Financial Liabilities</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Issues Related to Financial Liabilities</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_56" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.56</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.56</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Understanding the effect of credit risk
is an important aspect of valuing both financial assets and liabilities.
This valuation reflects the credit quality and financial strength
of both the issuer and any credit support providers. In some financial
reporting frameworks, the measurement of a financial liability assumes
it is transferred to a market participant at the measurement date.
When an observable market price for a financial liability does not
exist, its value is typically measured using the same method a counterparty
would use to measure the value of the corresponding asset, unless
there are factors specific to the liability (such as third-party credit
enhancement). In particular, the entity’s own credit risk can often be difficult to measure.
        <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
          <para>
             is the amount
of change in fair value that is not attributable to changes in market
conditions.
            <emphasis role="italic">Own credit risk</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>