<root id="aag-afi10_observations" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Observations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Observations</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi10_14" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>10.14</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">10.14</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">JLM’s fixed-rate bond obligation together
with the interest rate swap it entered into is economically equal
to a variable-rate obligation as a result of entering into the interest
rate swap. For example, interest expense for the quarter ended June
30, 20X1, was $21,250, consisting of $20,000 paid under the bond plus
$1,250 paid under the swap. This equals interest on the bond at the
variable rate of 8.5% ($1,000,000 × 8.5% × 3/12 = $21,250). Due to
the fact that the benchmark interest rate increased during the first
5 months of the hedging relationship, the fair value of the interest
rate swap decreased, resulting in JLM making net interest cash payments
on the settlement dates. </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_15" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>10.15</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">10.15</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The fair value of the bond obligation
decreased as a result of the increase in the benchmark interest rate.
The decrease in the fair value of the bond created unrealized gain
that was partially offset by the unrealized loss from the decrease
in the fair value of the swap (which resulted in recognizing a liability).
The fair value change in the bond obligation was compared with the
change in the fair value of the interest rate swap to determine hedge
effectiveness (that is, within 80% to 125% of each other). Once determined,
the change in the fair value of the bond obligation attributable to
changes in the benchmark interest rate was recognized in earnings
as an offset to the change in fair value of the interest rate swap.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_16" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>10.16</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">10.16</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The results were that at March 31 and
June 30, the changes in fair value of the interest rate swap were
highly effective in offsetting the changes in fair value of the bond
obligation attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate.
Furthermore, the hedge ineffectiveness (that is, $5,000 at March 31)
was recognized currently in earnings. </para>
  </section>
</root>