<root id="aag-afi6" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Chapter 6 — Concluding on the Work Performed, Reporting
Considerations, and Other Audit Considerations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Chapter 6</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">Concluding on the Work Performed,
Reporting Considerations, and Other Audit Considerations</subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi6_update_6-1">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
6-1 : Audit Evidence
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In July 2020, the AICPA issued ,  (AU-C sec. 500), which supersedes AU-C section 500A, , and amends the following AU-C sections: 
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 142</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
        <para>
          All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
          <emphasis role="italic">
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_315">Section 315</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment
and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_330">Section 330</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response
to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_530">Section 530</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Sampling</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">Section
540A</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates,
Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
       explains what constitutes audit evidence in an
audit of financial statements and sets out attributes of information
that are taken into account by the auditor when evaluating information
to be used as audit evidence.
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">SAS No. 142</olink>
    </para>
    <para>
      This SAS is effective for
audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after December
15, 2022. A link to the final SAS and other resources can be found
on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <section id="aag-afi6_evaluating_the_sufficiency_and" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit
Evidence</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness
of Audit Evidence</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi6_01" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.01</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.01</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Paragraph .18 of AU-C section 540B, , requires
the auditor to evaluate, based on the audit evidence, whether the
accounting estimates in the financial statements are either reasonable
in the context of the applicable financial reporting framework or
misstated.
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value
Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
          <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_02" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.02</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.02</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Based on the audit evidence obtained,
the auditor may conclude that the evidence points to an accounting
estimate that differs from management’s point estimate. When the audit
evidence supports a point estimate, the difference between the auditor’s
point estimate and management’s point estimate constitutes a misstatement.
When the auditor has concluded that using the auditor’s range provides
sufficient appropriate audit evidence, a management point estimate
that lies outside the auditor’s range would not be supported by audit
evidence. In such cases, the misstatement is no less than the difference
between management’s point estimate and the nearest point of the auditor’s
range.
        <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
          <para>
            Paragraph .A122 of AU-C section 540B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_03" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.03</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.03</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Further, paragraph .28 of AU-C section
330B, , requires the auditor to conclude whether sufficient appropriate
audit evidence has been obtained. In forming a conclusion, the auditor
is required to consider all relevant audit evidence, regardless of
whether it appears to corroborate or contradict the assertions in
the financial statements.
        <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response
to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_04" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.04</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.04</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        The auditor’s professional judgment about
what constitutes sufficient appropriate audit evidence is influenced
by such factors as the
        <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
          <para>
            Paragraph .A75 of AU-C section 330B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed Risks and Evaluating
the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            significance of the potential misstatement in the
relevant assertion and the likelihood of it having a material effect,
individually or aggregated with other potential misstatements, on
the financial statements. (See AU-C section 450B, .)
            <emphasis role="italic">Evaluation of Misstatements Identified During the Audit</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>effectiveness of management’s responses and controls
to address the risks.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>experience gained during previous audits with respect
to similar potential misstatements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>results of audit procedures performed, including whether
such audit procedures identified specific instances of fraud or error.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>source and reliability of the available information.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>persuasiveness of the audit evidence.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>understanding of the entity and its environment, including
its internal control.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_presentation_and_disclosure_of" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Presentation and Disclosure of Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Presentation and Disclosure of Financial
Instruments</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <paraBlock role="ps_box">
      <para id="aag-afi6_update_6-2">
        <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
        <emphasis role="bold">
           Update
6-2 : Auditing Accounting
Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related
Disclosures
          <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>
        In July 2020, the AICPA issued ,  (AU-C sec. 540), which supersedes , , and amends the following AU-C
sections: 
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">AU-C section 540A</olink>
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_240">Section 240</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement
Audit</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_260">Section 260</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication With Those
Charged With Governance </emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_580">Section 580</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial
Statements</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">Section 701</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Key Audit Matters in the
Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </para>
      <para>
         addresses the auditor’s responsibilities relating
to accounting estimates, including fair value accounting estimates
and related disclosures, in an audit of financial statements.
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
      </para>
      <para>
        This SAS is effective for audits of financial statements for
periods ending on or after December 15, 2023. A link to the final
SAS and other resources can be found on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
        <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
      </para>
    </paraBlock>
    <section id="aag-afi6_05" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.05</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.05</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Management’s responsibilities include
the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements
in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework. Financial reporting frameworks often require disclosures
in the financial statements to enable users of the financial statements
to make meaningful assessments of the effects of the entity’s financial
instrument activities, including the risks and uncertainties associated
with these financial instruments. The importance of disclosures regarding
the basis of measurement increases as the measurement uncertainty
of the financial instruments increases and is also affected by the
level of the fair value hierarchy.
        <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
          <para>
            See paragraphs .04 and .A2 of AU-C section 200B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the
Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted Auditing
Standards</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_06" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.06</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.06</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In representing that the financial statements
are in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework,
management implicitly or explicitly makes assertions regarding the
presentation and disclosure of the various elements of financial statements
and related disclosures. Assertions about presentation and disclosure
encompass</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">The auditor’s procedures around auditing
disclosures are designed in consideration of these assertions.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>occurrence and rights and obligations. Disclosed events,
transactions, and other matters have occurred and pertain to the entity.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>completeness. All disclosures that should have been
included in the financial statements have been included.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>classification and understandability. Financial information
is appropriately presented and described, and disclosures are clearly
expressed.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>accuracy and valuation. Financial and other information
are disclosed fairly and at appropriate amounts.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_assertions_about_financial_instruments" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Assertions About Financial Instruments Based on Management’s
Intent and Ability</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Assertions About Financial Instruments
Based on Management’s Intent and Ability</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_07" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.07</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.07</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Financial reporting frameworks may require
that management’s intent and ability be considered in valuing certain
financial instruments, as follows:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Whether debt securities are classified as held to
maturity and reported at their cost depends on management’s intent
and ability to hold them to their maturity, as well as management’s
assessment of whether it is more likely than not that they will be
required to sell the security before the recovery of its amortized
cost basis.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Whether equity securities are reported using the equity
method depends on management’s ability to significantly influence
the investee.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Whether equity securities are classified as trading
or available for sale depends on management’s intent and objectives
in investing in the financial instruments.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_08" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.08</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.08</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">In evaluating management’s intent and
ability, the auditor might</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>obtain an understanding of the process used by management
to classify financial instruments as trading, available for sale,
or held to maturity.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>for an investment accounted for using the equity method,
inquire of management regarding whether the entity has the ability
to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial
policies of the investee and evaluate the attendant circumstances
that serve as a basis for management’s conclusions.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>if the entity accounts for the investment contrary
to the presumption established by the applicable financial reporting
framework for use of the equity method, obtain sufficient appropriate
audit evidence about whether that presumption has been overcome and
whether appropriate disclosure is made regarding the reasons for not
accounting for the investment in keeping with that presumption.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>consider whether management’s activities corroborate
or conflict with its stated intent. For example, the auditor might
evaluate an assertion that management intends to hold debt securities
to their maturity by examining evidence such as documentation of management’s
strategies and sales and other historical activities with respect
to those financial instruments and similar financial instruments.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              determine whether the applicable financial reporting
framework requires management to document its intentions and specify
the content and timeliness of that documentation. The auditor might inspect the documentation and obtain
audit evidence about its timeliness. Unlike the formal documentation
required for hedging activities, audit evidence supporting the classification
of debt and equity securities may be more informal.
              <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
                <para>
                  Paragraphs 1–2 of FASB  (ASC) 320-10-25 require an investor to classify
and document the classification of debt securities into one of three
categories at their acquisition: held to maturity, available for sale,
or trading.
                  <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards
Codification</emphasis>
                </para>
              </footnote>
              <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
                <para>
                  FASB ASC 825-10-05-5 permits entities to choose to measure many
financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are
not currently required to be measured at fair value. FASB ASC 825-10-50
also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed
to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement
attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. FASB ASC 825-10-50
does not eliminate disclosure requirements included in other accounting
standards, including requirements for disclosures about fair value
measurements included in FASB ASC 820, .
                  <emphasis role="italic">Fair
Value Measurement</emphasis>
                </para>
              </footnote>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>determine whether management’s activities, contractual
agreements, or the entity’s financial condition provide evidence of
its ability, as follows:</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>The entity’s financial position, working capital needs,
operating results, debt agreements, guarantees, alternate sources
of liquidity, and other relevant contractual obligations, as well
as laws and regulations, may provide evidence about an entity’s ability
to hold debt financial instruments to their maturity.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Management’s cash flow projections may suggest that
it does not have the ability to hold debt financial instruments to
their maturity.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Management’s inability to obtain information from
an investee may suggest that it does not have the ability to significantly
influence the investee.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>If the entity asserts that it maintains effective
control over financial instruments transferred under a repurchase
agreement, the contractual agreement may be such that the entity actually
surrendered control over the financial instruments and, therefore,
should account for the transfer as a sale instead of a secured borrowing.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_procedures_relating_to_the" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Procedures Relating to the Presentation and Disclosure
of Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Procedures Relating to the Presentation
and Disclosure of Financial Instruments</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_09" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.09</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.09</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">In relation to the presentation and disclosures
of financial instruments, areas of particular importance include the
following:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Financial reporting frameworks generally require additional
disclosures regarding estimates and related risks and uncertainties
to supplement and explain assets, liabilities, income, and expenses.
The auditor’s focus may need to be on the disclosures relating to
risks and sensitivity analysis. Information obtained during the auditor’s
risk assessment procedures and testing of control activities may provide
evidence in order for the auditor to conclude whether the disclosures
in the financial statements are in accordance with the requirements
of the applicable financial reporting framework, such as the following:</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>The entity’s objectives and strategies for using financial
instruments, including the entity’s stated accounting policies</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The entity’s control framework for managing its risks
associated with financial instruments</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The risks and uncertainties associated with the financial
instruments</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Information may come from systems outside traditional
financial reporting systems, such as risk systems. Examples of procedures
that the auditor may choose to perform in responding to assessed risks
relative to disclosures include testing the</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>process used to derive the disclosed information.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>operating effectiveness of the controls over the data
used in the preparation of disclosures.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              In relation to financial instruments having significant
risk, even when the disclosures are in accordance with the applicable
financial reporting framework, the auditor may conclude that the disclosure
of estimation uncertainty is inadequate in light of the circumstances
and facts involved, and accordingly, the financial statements may
not achieve fair presentation. AU-C section 705B, , provides guidance on the implications for the auditor’s
opinion when the auditor believes management’s disclosures in the
financial statements are inadequate or misleading.
              <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
                <para>Paragraph .20 of AU-C section 540B requires the auditor to perform
further procedures on disclosures relating to accounting estimates
that give rise to significant risks to evaluate the adequacy of the
disclosure of estimation uncertainty in the financial statements in
the context of the applicable financial reporting framework.</para>
              </footnote>
              <emphasis role="italic">Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s
Report</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              Auditors may also consider whether the disclosures
are complete and understandable. (For example, all relevant information
may be included in the financial statements [or accompanying reports],
but it may be insufficiently drawn together to enable users of the
financial statements to obtain an understanding of the position, or
there may not be enough qualitative disclosure to give context to
the amounts recorded in the financial statements). For example, even
when an entity has included sensitivity analysis disclosures, the
disclosure may not fully describe the risks and uncertainties that
may arise because of changes in valuation, possible effects on debt
covenants, collateral requirements, and the entity’s liquidity. Paragraph
.12 of AU-C section 260B, , contains requirements
and guidance about communicating with those charged with governance,
including the auditor’s views about qualitative aspects of the entity’s
significant accounting practices, including accounting policies, accounting
estimates, and financial statement disclosures.
              <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication
With Those Charged With Governance</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_10" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.10</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.10</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Consideration of the appropriateness of
presentation (for example, on short-term and long-term classification)
in substantive testing of financial instruments is relevant to the
auditor’s evaluation of the presentation and disclosure.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_additional_considerations_about_hedging" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Additional Considerations About Hedging Activities</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Additional Considerations About Hedging
Activities</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_11" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.11</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.11</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          To account for a derivative as a hedge,
FASB  (ASC) 815 requires management, at the inception of the hedge, to
designate the derivative as a hedge and contemporaneously formally
document the hedging relationship, the entity’s risk management
objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge, and the method of
assessing the effectiveness of the hedge. In addition, to qualify
for hedge accounting, FASB ASC 815 requires that management have an
expectation, both at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing
basis, that the hedging relationship will be highly effective in achieving
the hedging strategy.
          <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
          <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
            <para>FASB ASC 815-20-25 requires formal documentation of prescribed
aspects of hedging relationships at the inception of the hedge.</para>
          </footnote>
          <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn10" label="fn 10" role="number">
            <para>
              FASB ASC 815, , requires management to periodically reassess the effectiveness
of hedging relationships whenever financial statements or earnings
are reported and at least every three months. It also requires that
all assessments of effectiveness be consistent with the risk management
strategy documented for the particular hedging relationship.
              <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_12" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.12</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.12</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor may gather audit evidence
to determine whether management complied with the hedge accounting
requirements of FASB ASC 815, including designation and documentation
requirements. In addition, the auditor may gather audit evidence to
support management’s expectation at the inception of the hedge that
the hedging relationship will be highly effective and management’s
periodic assessment of the ongoing effectiveness of the hedging relationship
as required by FASB ASC 815. </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_13" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.13</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.13</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">When the entity designates a derivative
as a fair value hedge, FASB ASC 815-25 requires that the entity adjust
the carrying amount of the hedged item for the change in the hedged
item’s fair value that is attributable to the hedged risk. The auditor
may gather audit evidence supporting the recorded change in the hedged
item’s fair value that is attributable to the hedged risk. Additionally,
the auditor may gather audit evidence to determine whether management
has properly applied FASB ASC 815-25 to the hedged item.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_14" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.14</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.14</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">For a cash flow hedge of a forecasted
transaction, FASB ASC 815-20 requires management to determine that
the forecasted transaction is probable of occurring. Those principles
require that the likelihood the transaction will take place not be
based solely on management’s intent. Instead, the transaction’s probability
should be supported by observable facts and the attendant circumstances,
such as the</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">Paragraph .26 of AU-C section 330B requires
the auditor to perform audit procedures to evaluate whether the overall
presentation of the financial statements, including the related disclosures,
is in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
This includes evaluating management’s determination of whether a forecasted
transaction is probable.</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>frequency of similar past transactions.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>financial and operational ability of the entity to
carry out the transaction.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>extent of loss that could result if the transaction
does not occur.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>likelihood that transactions with substantially different
characteristics might be used to achieve the same business purpose.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_reporting_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Reporting Considerations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Reporting Considerations</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <paraBlock role="ps_box">
      <para id="aag-afi6_update_6-3">
        <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
        <emphasis role="bold">
           Update
6-3 : Auditor Reporting
and Amendments, Including Amendments Addressing Disclosures in the
Audit of Financial Statements
          <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>
        In May 2019,
the AICPA issued SAS No. 134, . This suite of auditor reporting
standards includes a new (although not required)  and replaces the following
AU-C sections in AICPA :
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditor Reporting
and Amendments, Including Amendments Addressing Disclosures in the
Audit of Financial Statements</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Professional Standards</emphasis>
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">AU-C section 701</olink>
      </para>
      <para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_705">Section 705</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent
Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_706">Section 706</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Emphasis-of-Matter Paragraphs and Other-Matter
Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </para>
      <para>SAS No. 134, which also amends various
other AU-C sections, addresses the auditor’s responsibility to form
an opinion on the financial statements and the form and content of
the auditor’s report issued as a result of an audit of financial statements.
It also addresses the auditor’s responsibilities, and the form and
content of the auditor’s report, when the auditor concludes that a
modification to the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements
is necessary, and when additional communications are necessary in
the auditor’s report.</para>
      <para>
        At the time SAS No. 134 was originally
issued, the amendments were intended to become effective for audits
of financial statements for periods ending on or after December 15,
2020 and early implementation was not permitted; however, in May 2020,
the AICPA issued SAS No. 141, .
        <emphasis role="italic">Amendment to
the Effective Dates of SAS Nos. 134–140</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>SAS
No. 141 delays the effective dates of SAS Nos. 134–140, and the amendments
to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140, from December 15, 2020 to
December 15, 2021, in order to provide more time for firms to implement
these SASs in light of the effect of the coronavirus pandemic. SAS
Nos. 134, 136–137, and 139–140, as originally issued, do not permit
early implementation; however, SAS No. 141 amends these SASs to no
longer preclude early implementation. </para>
      <para>SAS Nos. 134 and
136–140 are interrelated because the Auditing Standards Board (ASB)
amended the auditor reporting model adopted in SAS No. 134 with the
issuance of the subsequent SASs. The effective dates were aligned
so that these SASs would be implemented as a suite, primarily to accommodate
the amendments to the auditor reporting model. Accordingly, the ASB
recommends that all of these SASs be implemented concurrently. SAS
No. 141 was effective upon issuance.</para>
    </paraBlock>
    <section id="aag-afi6_reliance_on_the_work" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Reliance on the Work of the Specialist</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Reliance on the Work of the Specialist</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_15" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.15</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.15</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          The auditor should not refer to the work
of an auditor’s specialist in an auditor’s report containing an unmodified
opinion. Reference to the specialist might be misunderstood to
be a modification of the auditor’s opinion or division of responsibility,
neither of which is intended. 
          <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn11" label="fn 11" role="number">
            <para>
              Paragraph .14 of AU-C section 620B, .
              <emphasis role="italic">Using the Work of an Auditor’s Specialist</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_16" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.16</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.16</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Circumstances may arise as a result of
the valuation report or findings of the specialist wherein the auditor
decides to modify the auditor’s report on the financial statements.
Reference to, and identification of, the specialist may be made in
the auditor’s report if, in the auditor’s judgment, the reference
will facilitate an understanding of the reason for the modified opinion.
In that circumstance, the auditor is required to indicate in the auditor’s
report that such reference does not reduce the auditor’s responsibility
for that opinion.
          <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn12" label="fn 12" role="number">
            <para>Paragraph .15 of AU-C section 620B.</para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_17" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.17</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.17</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Situations may arise in which an entity
lacks the sophistication to perform its own valuation. For example,
an acquiring entity may refuse to engage a valuation specialist and
makes its own estimate of the fair value of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed. In those circumstances, the auditor may recommend
that the acquiring entity engage a qualified independent valuation
specialist. If, in the auditor’s judgment, the valuation is not properly
prepared, it may not provide sufficient audit evidence in support
of the amounts assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
AU-C section 705B describes the implications of the auditor’s inability
to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. See  for additional
guidance.
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi6_18">paragraphs 6.18–.21</olink>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_modifications_to_the_auditors" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Modifications to the Auditor’s Report</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Modifications to the Auditor’s Report</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_18" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.18</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.18</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">AU-C section 705B addresses how the form
and content of the auditor’s report are affected when the auditor
expresses a modified opinion (a qualified opinion, an adverse opinion,
or a disclaimer of opinion).</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_scope_limitations" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Scope Limitations</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Scope Limitations</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi6_19" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.19</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.19</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s objective is to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence to provide a reasonable basis for forming
an opinion. There are often significant challenges to management obtaining
sufficient information to support its assertions relevant to financial
instruments, and auditors will face similar challenges in obtaining
audit evidence and evaluating its sufficiency. The amounts and types
of audit evidence necessary to support an opinion are matters for
the auditor to determine in the exercise of his or her professional
judgment after careful study of the particular circumstances. In evaluating
audit evidence, the auditor may consider whether the specific audit
objectives have been met. The consideration might include such factors
as</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>the significance of the financial instruments for
which neither the underlying detail nor audited financial statements
were available as of the balance sheet date.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>the adequacy of management’s process and related internal
control.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>timeliness of the estimated fair value of the underlying
financial instruments.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi6_20" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.20</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.20</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s justification for the expression
of his or her opinion rests on the conformity of the audit with generally
accepted auditing standards (GAAS). When a significant amount of financial
instruments are stated at estimated fair value, the auditor may consider
both the uncertainties inherent in the financial instrument valuations
and the extent of audit evidence supporting those valuations. The
assessment of reasonableness of valuations considers their effects
on the financial statements as a whole, not solely the investment
caption in the financial statements. If the auditor is unable to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support the financial statement
assertions, it will be necessary to modify an opinion on the financial
statements due to a scope limitation. </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi6_21" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.21</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.21</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Scope limitations related to sufficiency
of evidence are different from situations in which the auditor concludes
that the financial statements are materially misstated due to departures
from the applicable financial reporting framework related to inadequate
disclosure of uncertainties inherent in the financial instrument valuations,
failure to apply a valuation method required by the applicable financial
reporting framework, or valuations that are not supported or reasonable.
If the potential effect of the applicable financial reporting framework
departure is material to the investor entity’s financial statements
as a whole, the auditor is required to issue a qualified opinion or
an adverse opinion, as described in paragraph .09 of AU-C section
705B.</para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_departures_from_the_applicable" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Departures From the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Departures From the Applicable Financial
Reporting Framework</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi6_22" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.22</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.22</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            After performing the audit procedures,
including evaluating the findings of the valuation specialist, the
auditor may conclude that management’s assertions in the financial
statements about the identification or estimate of fair value are
not presented or measured in accordance with applicable the financial
reporting framework. This situation could arise from unresolved differences
of opinion over the appropriateness of the valuation method or the
reasonableness of the significant valuation assumptions. When financial
statements are materially affected by a departure from the applicable
financial reporting framework, and the auditor has performed an audit
in accordance with GAAS, the auditor should issue a qualified or an
adverse opinion on the financial statements.
            <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn13" label="fn 13" role="number">
              <para>
                Paragraphs .08–.10 of AU-C section 705B, .
                <emphasis role="italic">Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </section>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_voluntary_disclosures_regarding_fair" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Voluntary Disclosures Regarding Fair Value Information</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Voluntary Disclosures Regarding Fair
Value Information</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_reporting_on_fair_value" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>
            Reporting on Fair Value Information Not Required by FASB
ASC 825, , Presented as
a Complete Balance Sheet Presentation or a Specific Element of a Financial
Statement
            <emphasis>Financial Instruments</emphasis>
          </titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">
            Reporting on Fair Value Information
Not Required by FASB ASC 825, , Presented as a Complete Balance Sheet Presentation or a Specific
Element of a Financial Statement
            <emphasis>Financial Instruments</emphasis>
          </title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi6_23" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.23</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.23</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            Paragraph .19 of AU-C section 540B states
that the auditor should obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence
about whether the disclosures in the financial statements related
to accounting estimates are in accordance with the requirements of
the applicable financial reporting framework. The presentation of
financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework includes adequate disclosure of material matters. The applicable
financial reporting framework may permit or prescribe disclosures
relating to accounting estimates, including fair value accounting
estimates, and some entities may disclose voluntarily additional information
in the notes to the financial statements. If such voluntary additional
information is presented as part of the basic financial statements,
in accordance with paragraph .59 of AU-C section 700B, , such information should be covered by the auditor’s opinion if
it cannot be clearly differentiated.
            <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements</emphasis>
          </para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_reporting_on_additional" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Reporting on Additional, Voluntary Fair Value Information
Presented as a Complete Balance Sheet Presentation or a Specific Element
of a Financial Statement </titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Reporting on Additional, Voluntary
Fair Value Information Presented as a Complete Balance Sheet Presentation
or a Specific Element of a Financial Statement</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi6_24" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.24</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.24</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            Voluntary disclosures regarding fair value
information may supplement required disclosures in such a manner as
to constitute either a complete balance sheet (the fair value of all
material items in the balance sheet) or a presentation of a specific
element, account, or item (element) of a financial statement. In such
cases, in conjunction with an engagement to audit the entity’s complete
set of financial statements, the auditor may undertake an engagement
to audit and report on a single financial statement or a specific
element of a financial statement in accordance with AU-C section 805B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Special Considerations — Audits of Single Financial
Statements and Specific Elements, Accounts, or Items of a Financial
Statement</emphasis>
          </para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_reporting_on_additonal_vol" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Reporting on Additional, Voluntary Fair Value Information
Presented as Supplementary Information in Relation to the Financial
Statements as a Whole </titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Reporting on Additional, Voluntary
Fair Value Information Presented as Supplementary Information in Relation
to the Financial Statements as a Whole </title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi6_25" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.25</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.25</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            Voluntary disclosures regarding fair value
information also may be presented as supplementary information, and
the auditor may be engaged to report on whether the additional fair
value information is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation
to the financial statements as a whole in accordance with AU-C section
725B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Supplementary Information in Relation
to the Financial Statements as a Whole</emphasis>
          </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi6_26" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.26</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.26</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">In accordance with paragraph .05 of AU-C
section 725B in order to opine as to whether the supplemental fair
value information is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation
to the financial statements as a whole, the auditor should determine
that all of the following conditions are met:</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>The supplementary information was derived from, and
relates directly to, the underlying accounting and other records used
to prepare the financial statements.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>The supplementary information relates to the same
period as the financial statements.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>The auditor issued an audit report on the financial
statements that contained neither an adverse opinion nor a disclaimer
of opinion. (Paragraph .11 of AU-C section 725B addresses reporting
while not opining on supplementary information when the report on
the financial statements contains an adverse opinion or a disclaimer
of opinion.)</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>The supplementary information will accompany the entity’s
audited financial statements, or such audited financial statements
will be made readily available by the entity.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi6_27" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.27</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.27</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            AU-C section 725B requires the auditor
to report on the additional fair value information in either () an other-matter paragraph in accordance
with AU-C section 706B, , or () in a
separate report on the voluntary information.
            <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Emphasis-of-Matter
Paragraphs and Other-Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s
Report</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
          </para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_reporting_on_additional_fair" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Reporting on Additional, Fair Value Information Presented
as Unaudited Information</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Reporting on Additional, Fair Value
Information Presented as Unaudited Information</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi6_28" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.28</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.28</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            In some cases, the auditor is not engaged
to report on the voluntary disclosures regarding fair value information,
and accordingly, such additional disclosures are ordinarily labeled
as unaudited to clearly differentiate them from the audited financial
statements. The auditor may, but is not required to, include an other-matter
paragraph in the auditor’s report on the financial statements to disclaim
an opinion on the additional fair value information in accordance
with paragraph .A2 of AU-C section 720B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Other
Information in Documents Containing Audited Financial Statements</emphasis>
          </para>
        </section>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_other_relevant_audit_considerations" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Other Relevant Audit Considerations</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Other Relevant Audit Considerations</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_written_representations" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Written Representations</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Written Representations</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi6_29" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.29</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.29</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            Paragraph .16 of AU-C section 580B, , requires the auditor
to obtain written representations from management and, when appropriate,
those charged with governance about whether they believe significant
assumptions used in making accounting estimates are reasonable. AU-C
section 580B also states that written representations from management
do not provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence on their own
about any of the matters with which they deal. If the auditor is otherwise
unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, this may constitute
a limitation on the scope of the audit that may have implications
for the auditor’s report. (See AU-C section 705B.) 
            <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
            <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn14" label="fn 14" role="number">
              <para>
                See .
                <olink role="footnote" targetptr="aag-afi6_fn13">footnote
13</olink>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi6_30" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.30</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.30</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraph .19 of AU-C section 580B requires
that if, in addition to such required representations, the auditor
determines it is necessary to obtain one or more written representations
to support other audit evidence relevant to the financial statements
or one or more specific assertions in the financial statements, the
auditor should request such other written representations. Depending
on the volume and degree of complexity of financial instrument activities,
written representations to support other evidence obtained about financial
instruments may also include</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>management’s objectives with respect to financial
instruments (for example, whether they are used for hedging, asset
or liability management, or investment purposes).</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>representations about the appropriateness of the presentation
of the financial statements (for example, the recording of financial
instrument transactions as sales or financing transactions).</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>representations about the financial statement disclosures
concerning financial instruments (for example, that the records reflect
all financial instrument transactions, and all embedded derivative
instruments have been identified).</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>whether all transactions have been conducted at arm’s
length and market value.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>the terms of transactions.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>the appropriateness of the valuations of financial
instruments.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>whether any side agreements associated with any financial
instruments exist.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>whether the entity has entered into any written options.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                management’s intent and ability to carry out certain
actions. 
                <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn15" label="fn 15" role="number">
                  <para>Paragraph .A82 of AU-C section 540B provides examples of procedures
that may be appropriate in the circumstances.</para>
                </footnote>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>whether subsequent events require adjustment to the
valuations and disclosures included in the financial statements.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_communication_with_those_charged" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Communication With Those Charged With Governance and
Others</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Communication With Those Charged With
Governance and Others</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi6_31" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.31</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.31</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Because of the uncertainties associated
with the valuation of financial instruments, the potential effects
on the financial statements of any significant risks are likely to
be of governance interest. The auditor may communicate the nature
and consequences of significant assumptions used in fair value measurements,
the degree of subjectivity involved in the development of the assumptions,
and the relative materiality of the items being measured at fair value
to the financial statements as a whole. In addition, the need for
appropriate controls over commitments to enter into financial instrument
contracts and the subsequent measurement processes are matters that
may give rise to the need for communication with those charged with
governance.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi6_32" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.32</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.32</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">AU-C section 260B addresses the auditor’s
responsibility to communicate with those charged with governance in
an audit of financial statements. With respect to financial instruments,
matters to be communicated to those charged with governance may include</para>
          <para role="ps_indent_0">The appropriate timing for communications
will vary with the circumstances of the engagement; however, it may
be appropriate to communicate significant difficulties encountered
during the audit as soon as practicable if those charged with governance
are able to assist the auditor to overcome the difficulty or if it
is likely to lead to a modified opinion.</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>a lack of management understanding of the nature or
extent of the financial instrument activities or the risks associated
with such activities.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in
the design or operation of the system of internal control relating
to the entity’s financial instrument activities that the auditor has
identified during the audit.
                <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn16" label="fn 16" role="number">
                  <para>
                    AU-C section 265B, , addresses
the auditor’s responsibility to communicate to those charged with
governance and management deficiencies in internal control that the
auditor has identified in an audit of financial statements. It explains
that deficiencies in internal control may be identified during the
auditor’s risk assessment procedures, in accordance with AU-C section
315B, , or at
any other stage of the audit.
                    <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Internal
Control Related Matters Identified in an Audit</emphasis>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment
and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </footnote>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>significant difficulties encountered when obtaining
sufficient appropriate audit evidence relating to valuations performed
by management or management’s specialist (for example, when management
is unable to obtain an understanding of the valuation methodology,
assumptions, and data used by management’s specialists, and such information
is not made available to the auditor by management’s specialist).</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>significant differences in judgments between the auditor
and management or management’s specialist regarding valuations.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>the potential effects on the entity’s financial statements
of material risks and exposures required to be disclosed in the financial
statements, including the measurement uncertainty associated with
financial instruments.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>the auditor’s views about the appropriateness of the
selection of accounting policies and presentation of financial instrument
transactions in the financial statements.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>the auditor’s views about the qualitative aspects
of the entity’s accounting practices and financial reporting for financial
instruments.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>a lack of comprehensive and clearly stated policies
for the purchase, sale, and holding of financial instruments, including
operational controls, procedures for designating financial instruments
as hedges, and monitoring exposures.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_communications_with_regulators_and" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Communications With Regulators and Others</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Communications With Regulators and
Others</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi6_33" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>6.33</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">6.33</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            In some cases, auditors may be required, or may consider it appropriate, to communicate directly
with regulators or others, in addition to those charged with governance,
regarding matters relating to financial instruments. Such communication
may be useful throughout the audit. For example, when required to
communicate with banking regulators, such regulators may share information
with the auditor about the operation and application of controls over
financial instrument activities, challenges in valuing financial instruments
in inactive markets, and compliance with regulations. This sharing
of information may be helpful to the auditor in identifying risks
of material misstatement.
            <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn17" label="fn 17" role="number">
              <para>
                For example, AU-C section 250B, , requires auditors to determine whether there is a responsibility
to report identified or suspected noncompliance with laws and regulations
to parties outside the entity. In addition, requirements concerning
the auditor’s communication to banking supervisors and others may
be established in many countries by law, supervisory requirement,
or formal agreement or protocol.
                <emphasis role="italic">Consideration
of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements</emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </section>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>