<root id="aag-afi9" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Chapter 9 — Case Study of Separately Accounting for a
Derivative Embedded in a Bond</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Chapter 9</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">Case Study of Separately Accounting
for a Derivative Embedded in a Bond</subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box_shade">
    <para>
      <emphasis role="italic">Gray
shaded text in this chapter reflects guidance issued but not yet effective
as of the date of this guide, September 1, 2020, but becoming effective
on or prior to December 31, 2020, exclusive of any option to early
adopt ahead of the mandatory effective date. Unless otherwise indicated,
all unshaded text reflects guidance that was already effective as
of the date of this guide.</emphasis>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <section id="aag-afi9_01" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>9.01</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">9.01</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In this case study, the entity purchases
convertible bonds. The terms of the conversion feature allow the holder
of the bonds the option of requiring the bond issuer to settle the
bonds by converting each bond to a specified number of the issuer’s
shares. These convertible bonds are a combination of an interest-bearing
bond and a conversion option.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_02" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>9.02</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">9.02</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Under FASB  (ASC) 815-15-25, an embedded derivative,
such as a conversion option, must be separated from its host contract
(in this case, the bonds) and accounted for as a derivative instrument
if certain criteria are met. This case study illustrates how to apply
the guidance on accounting for embedded derivatives contained in FASB
ASC 815, , including determining the fair value of the embedded derivative
and host contract. The case study also provides an example of how
to apply the guidance contained in AU-C section 501B, , to an embedded derivative.
      <emphasis role="italic">Accounting
Standards Codification</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations for Selected
Items</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi9_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
        <para>
          All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA . Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statements on Auditing Standards (SASs) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently-issued
SASs.
          <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">
            <emphasis role="italic">Professional Standards</emphasis>
          </olink>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_accounting_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Accounting Considerations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">
        Accounting Considerations
        <footnote id="aag-afi9_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
          <para>For simplicity, this case study ignores income tax consequences.</para>
        </footnote>
        <footnote id="aag-afi9_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
          <para>
            FASB Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-13,  was issued in
June 2016. The ASU is effective for fiscal years of public business
entities (PBEs) that are SEC filers in fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
For all other entities, the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13 are effective
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022, including interim
periods within those fiscal years, consistent with the amended effective
date in ASU No. 2019-10, . Early application
is permitted for all entities as of the fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
            <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments — Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement
of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815),
and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates</emphasis>
          </para>
          <para>
            ASU No. 2016-13 creates FASB  (ASC) 326, , to amend guidance
on reporting credit losses for assets held at amortized cost basis
and available for sale debt securities. For assets held at amortized
cost basis, FASB ASC 326 eliminates the probable initial recognition
threshold in current generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)
and, instead, requires an entity to reflect its current estimate of
all expected credit losses. The allowance for credit losses is a valuation
account that is deducted from the amortized cost basis of the financial
assets to present the net amount expected to be collected.
            <emphasis role="italic">Accounting
Standards Codification</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments — Credit Losses</emphasis>
          </para>
          <para>For available for sale debt securities, credit losses should
be measured in a manner similar to current GAAP. However, FASB ASC
326 will require that credit losses be presented as an allowance rather
than as a write-down. ASU No. 2016-13 affects entities holding financial
assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at
fair value through net income. The amendments affect loans, debt securities,
trade receivables, net investments in leases, off-balance-sheet credit
exposures, reinsurance receivables, and any other financial assets
not excluded from the scope that have the contractual right to receive
cash. This also changed guidance in FASB ASC 325-40, which is related
to initial and subsequent measurement.  </para>
          <para>
            Readers are encouraged to consult the full text of this ASU
on FASB's website at . 
            <ulink url="www.fasb.org">www.fasb.org</ulink>
          </para>
          <para>
            For more information on ASU No. 2016-13, see , "Accounting for Financial
Instruments," of this guide.
            <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appF">appendix F</olink>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi9_description_of_the_transaction" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Description of the Transaction</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Transaction</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi9_03" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.03</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.03</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          On September 24, 20X1, Martin, Inc. (Martin)
purchased as an investment 100 of the $1,000, 5% convertible bonds
issued by Larson Enterprises (Larson). The bonds have a conversion
option under which Martin can require Larson to settle the bonds at
any time prior to their maturity by converting each bond into 26.185
shares of Larson’s publicly traded equity securities. For each bond,
Martin paid $1,242.50 plus accrued interest of $19.98, for a total
price per bond of $1,262.48. Therefore, Martin paid $126,248 for the
100 bonds, consisting of $124,250 for the convertible bonds and $1,998
for accrued interest. Martin classifies the bonds as available for
sale.
          <footnote id="aag-afi9_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
            <para>As noted in FASB ASC 320-10-25-5, the existence of the conversion
option on Larson Enterprises’ (Larson’s) stock would generally preclude
Martin, Inc. (Martin) from classifying the bonds as held to maturity.
A conversion option feature on a held-to-maturity security will call
into question an investor’s stated intent to hold other debt securities
to maturity in the future.</para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi9_04" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.04</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.04</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          The convertible bonds are hybrid financial
instruments that are a combination of straight interest-bearing bonds
and a conversion option. Because the option affects the value of the
bonds in a manner similar to a derivative, Martin must analyze the
hybrid instrument against the three criteria set out in FASB ASC 815-15-25-1. If the bond meets all the criteria, the option is an embedded
derivative that must be accounted for separately from the straight
bonds. The straight bonds are considered to be the host contracts
for the embedded derivative. , "Martin, Inc., Comparison of the Conversion
Option in the Larson Enterprises’ Bonds With the Criteria in FASB  815-15-25-1
for Separately Accounting for an Embedded Derivative," compares the
option contained in the Larson convertible bonds with the three criteria.
          <footnote id="aag-afi9_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
            <para>
              Because Larson’s equity securities are publicly traded, the
option that requires physical delivery of those shares would generally
be considered net settleable because the shares are readily convertible
into cash. As discussed in FASB ASC 815-10-15-18, if the shares were
not readily convertible into cash (for example, because they are privately
held), the option would not be considered net settleable and, therefore,
would not be a derivative instrument subject to the requirements of
FASB ASC 815, , if freestanding.
              <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi9_exhibit_9-1">Exhibit 9-1</olink>
          <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi9_05" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.05</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.05</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Paragraphs 4–5 of FASB ASC 815-15-25 permit
fair value remeasurement of any hybrid financial instrument that contains
an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation. An
entity that initially recognizes a hybrid financial instrument that
under FASB ASC 815-15-25-1 would be required to be separated into
a host contract and derivative instrument may irrevocably elect to
initially and subsequently measure that hybrid financial instrument
in its entirety at fair value (with changes in fair value recognized
in earnings and, if paragraph 825-10-45-5 is applicable, other comprehensive
income). A financial instrument should be evaluated to determine that
it has an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation before the instrument
can become a candidate for the fair value election. The fair value
election should be supported by concurrent documentation or a preexisting
documented policy for automatic election. That recognized hybrid financial
instrument could be an asset or a liability, and it could be acquired
or issued by the entity. That election is also available when a previously
recognized financial instrument is subject to a remeasurement event
(new basis event) and the separate recognition of an embedded derivative.
For purposes of FASB ASC 815-15-25-5, a  is an event identified in accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America, other
than the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment, or measurement
of an impairment loss through earnings under FASB ASC 321, , on equity
investments, that requires a financial instrument to be remeasured
to its fair value at the time of the event but does not require that
instrument to be reported at fair value on a continuous basis with
the change in fair value recognized in earnings. Examples of remeasurement
events are  and , as defined in FASB ASC 470-50. Per FASB ASC 815-15-25-6, the fair
value election should not be applied to any hybrid instruments listed
in FASB ASC 825-10-50-8.
          <emphasis role="italic">remeasurement
(new basis event)</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Equity Securities</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">business combinations</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">significant modifications of debt</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          <emphasis role="shade">
            Paragraphs 4–5
of FASB ASC 815-15-25 permit fair value remeasurement of any hybrid
financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise
would require bifurcation. An entity that initially recognizes a hybrid
financial instrument that under FASB ASC 815-15-25-1 would be required
to be separated into a host contract and derivative instrument may
irrevocably elect to initially and subsequently measure that hybrid
financial instrument in its entirety at fair value (with changes in
fair value recognized in earnings and, if paragraph 825-10-45-5 is
applicable, other comprehensive income). A financial instrument should
be evaluated to determine that it has an embedded derivative requiring
bifurcation before the instrument can become a candidate for the fair
value election. The fair value election should be supported by concurrent
documentation or a preexisting documented policy for automatic election.
That recognized hybrid financial instrument could be an asset or a
liability, and it could be acquired or issued by the entity. That
election is also available when a previously recognized financial
instrument is subject to a remeasurement event (new basis event) and
the separate recognition of an embedded derivative. For purposes of
FASB ASC 815-15-25-5, a  is an event identified in accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America, other than the
recording of a credit loss under FASB ASC 326, , or measurement
of an impairment loss through earnings under FASB ASC 321 on equity
investments, that requires a financial instrument to be remeasured
to its fair value at the time of the event but does not require that
instrument to be reported at fair value on a continuous basis with
the change in fair value recognized in earnings. Examples of remeasurement
events are  and , as defined in FASB ASC 470-50. Per FASB ASC 815-15-25-6, the fair
value election should not be applied to any hybrid instruments listed
in FASB ASC 825-10-50-8.
            <emphasis role="italic">remeasurement (new
basis event)</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments — Credit Losses</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">business combinations</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">significant modifications of debt</emphasis>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi9_06" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.06</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.06</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">According to FASB ASC 815-15-25-5, the
fair value election for hybrid financial instruments in paragraphs
4–5 of FASB ASC 815-15-25 may be made on an instrument-by-instrument
basis.</para>
        <para id="aag-afi9_exhibit_9-1" role="ps_indent_0">
          <emphasis role="bold">
            Exhibit 9-1 — Martin, Inc., Comparison of the Conversion Option in
the Larson Enterprises’ Bonds With the Criteria in FASB  815-15-25-1
for Separately Accounting for an Embedded Derivative
            <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">Because all three criteria are met, Martin
should account for the option (that is, embedded derivative) separately
from the straight bond (that is, host contract).</para>
        <table frame="all" id="aag-afi9_table1" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.92in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="3.04in"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Criterion</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Analysis</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>
                     The economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative
instrument are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics
and risks of the host contract.
                    <emphasis role="italic">Not clearly and closely related.</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>
                    Following the guidance in paragraphs 30–34 of FASB  (ASC) 815-10-15,
because the option is based on stock prices, it is not clearly and
closely related to the straight bond.
                    <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
                  </para>
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Criterion is met.</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>
                     The hybrid instrument that embodies both the embedded derivative
instrument and host contract is not remeasured at fair value under
otherwise applicable accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America, with changes in fair value reported in earnings
as they occur.
                    <emphasis role="italic">Accounting for the hybrid instrument.</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>
                    Martin, Inc., classifies the bonds as available for sale under
FASB ASC 320-10-25-1. Accordingly, although the bonds will be remeasured
at fair value, the changes in their fair value will be reported in
other comprehensive income rather than earnings.
                    <emphasis role="bold">*</emphasis>
                  </para>
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Criterion is met.</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>
                     A separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded instrument
meets the definition of a , subject to the requirements of FASB ASC 815-10-15.
                    <emphasis role="italic">The embedded instrument is a derivative.</emphasis>
                    <emphasis role="italic">derivative</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>
                    A conversion option would be a derivative subject to the requirements
of FASB ASC 815, .
                    <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives and Hedging</emphasis>
                  </para>
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Criterion is met.</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" nameend="c3" namest="c1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>
                    If Martin, Inc., instead
classified the bonds as trading under FASB ASC 320, ,
the bonds would be remeasured at fair value, with changes in fair
value reported in earnings as they occur. Accordingly, this criterion
would not be met, and FASB ASC 815, , would prohibit accounting for the option separately
from the bond.
                    <emphasis role="bold">*</emphasis>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Debt and Equity Securities</emphasis>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives
and Hedging</emphasis>
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi9_accounting_for_the_initial" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Accounting for the Initial Purchase</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Accounting for the Initial Purchase</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi9_07" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.07</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.07</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Following is a summary of Martin’s allocation
of the price of the convertible bonds between the option and straight
bonds at the purchase date:</para>
        <table frame="none" id="aag-afi9_table2" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="5" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="0.87in"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="2.99in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="0.75in"/>
            <colspec colname="c4" colwidth="0.62in"/>
            <colspec colname="c5" colwidth="0.75in"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Price per Bond</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">× 100 Bonds</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Total</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>Purchase of the hybrid instrument</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>$1,242.50</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>× 100</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>$124,250</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">Minus</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>Fair value of the option</para>
                  <para>
                    A specialist engaged by Martin estimated the fair value of the
option at $22.3505 per share using a binomial option-pricing model. Each bond is convertible into 26.185 shares of Larson’s
common stock, so the total fair value of the embedded derivative is
$585.25 per bond ($22.3505 per share multiplied by 26.185 shares per
bond).
                    <footnote id="aag-afi9_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
                      <para>In this case study, all the information necessary to measure
the option is readily available from published sources. If Martin
could not reliably measure the embedded derivative, the entire hybrid
instrument would have to be measured at fair value, with gain or loss
recognized in earnings. In addition, FASB ASC 815 would prohibit Martin
from designating the instrument as a hedging instrument.</para>
                    </footnote>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>$585.25</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>× 100</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>$58,525</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="bold">Equals</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>
                    Fair value of the straight bond
                    <footnote id="aag-afi9_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
                      <para>This with-and-without method for estimating the fair value of
the straight bonds involves subtracting the fair value of the option
from the basis of the hybrid instrument. Consistent with FASB ASC
815-15-30-2, the with-and-without method is the appropriate method
for separating hybrid instruments into their components. Refer to
FASB ASC 815-15-30-6 for guidance on the bifurcation of embedded options
based on contractual terms.</para>
                    </footnote>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$657.25</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>× 100</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$65,725</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi9_08" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.08</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.08</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">To check the reasonableness of its estimate
of the option’s fair value, Martin imputed the yield to maturity (YTM)
on the straight bonds. Assuming that the bonds have 8 years and 2
months to maturity, the imputed YTM on them is 12.54%. If Larson had
straight bonds outstanding, Martin could compare the imputed YTM with
the YTM of those bonds. However, Larson has no straight bonds outstanding,
so Martin compared the imputed YTM to the YTM on straight bonds of
similar credit quality (that is, BBB rated), which is approximately
12.5% to 13%. Therefore, Martin concluded that the allocation of the
purchase price between the option and straight bonds is reasonable.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi9_09" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.09</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.09</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The entry that Martin used to record the
purchase of the bonds on September 24, 20X1, is as follows:</para>
        <table frame="none" id="aag-afi9_table3" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.49in"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="1.00in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.00in"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                  <para>Investment in conversion option on Larson stock</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$58,525</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                  <para>Investment in Larson bonds</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                  <para>
                    65,725
                    <footnote id="aag-afi9_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
                      <para>Recording the investment of $65,725 creates a $34,275 discount
from the $100,000 principal that should be amortized to interest income
over the life of the bonds using the interest method.</para>
                    </footnote>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                  <para>Accrued interest receivable</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                  <para>1,998</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                  <para>
                    Cash
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0">
                  <para>$126,248</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi9_subsequent_accounting" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Subsequent Accounting</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Subsequent Accounting</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi9_10" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.10</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.10</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Martin will accrete the basis of the bonds
to $100,000 by their maturity date through credits to interest income.
Unrealized appreciation in the bonds is the difference between their
fair value and the straight bonds’ principal less unamortized discount.
Whenever it issues financial statements, Martin will estimate the
fair values of the hybrid instrument and option, subtract the two
to determine the estimated fair value of the straight bonds, and recognize
changes in the unrealized appreciation of the</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>option in earnings (assuming it is not designated
in a qualifying hedging relationship).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>straight bonds in other comprehensive income. </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi9_11" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.11</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.11</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">For example, assume that at the first
measurement date after Martin purchased the bonds, using the with-and-without
method used at the purchase date, Martin estimated the fair value
of the straight bonds as follows:</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">In addition, as of the first measurement
date</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Based on quotes from dealers, the fair value of the
hybrid instrument has increased by $15,750, from $124,250 to $140,000.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>A specialist engaged by Martin estimated that the
fair value of the option has increased by $6,475, from $58,525 to
$65,000.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The fair value of the straight bonds therefore increased
by $9,275, from $65,725 to $75,000.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>the discount on the bonds has decreased by $3,500,
from $34,275 to $30,775.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>interest of $4,998 was received, of which $1,998 was
for the accrual at the date the bonds were purchased. The remaining
$3,000 receipt relates to the current period.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>of the $9,275 total increase in the fair value of
the straight bonds, $3,500 is recorded as discount amortization, with
the remaining $5,775 recorded as other comprehensive income. Total
interest income recognized is $6,500, consisting of the $3,000 realized
and $3,500 discount amortization. Based on annualized calculations,
Martin concluded that the implicit yield is consistent with its initial
YTM calculations.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi9_12" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.12</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.12</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Martin would make the following entry:</para>
        <table frame="none" id="aag-afi9_table4" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.5in"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="1in"/>
            <colspec colname="c4" colwidth="1in"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>Cash</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$4,998</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>Investment in conversion option on Larson stock</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>6,475</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>Investment in Larson bonds</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>9,275</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>
                    Accrued interest receivable
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>$1,998</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>
                    Interest income
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>6,500</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>
                    Earnings from unrealized appreciation
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>6,475</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="top">
                  <para>
                    Other comprehensive income from unrealized appreciation
                    <tab/>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
                <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                  <para>5,775</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_auditing_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Auditing Considerations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Auditing Considerations</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi9_description_of_the_entity" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Description of the Entity</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Entity</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <paraBlock role="ps_box">
        <para>
          <emphasis role="bold">
            Update 9-1  Audit Evidence
            <emphasis role="italic">Auditing:</emphasis>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para>
          In July 2020, the AICPA issued , , which supersedes
AU-C section 500, , and amends the following AU-C sections:SAS No. 142 explains what constitutes audit evidence
in an audit of financial statements and sets out attributes of information
that are taken into account by the auditor when evaluating information
to be used as audit evidence.
          <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 142</olink>
          <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
          <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_315">Section 315</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment
and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_330">Section 330</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response
to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_530">Section 530</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Audit Sampling</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">Section 540</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including
Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        <para>
          This SAS is effective for
audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after December
15, 2022. A link to the final SAS and other resources can be found
on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
          <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
        </para>
      </paraBlock>
      <paraBlock role="ps_box">
        <para>
          <emphasis role="bold">
            Update 9-2 : Auditing Accounting Estimates,
Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures
            <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para>
          In July 2020, the AICPA issued , , which supersedes , , and amends
the following AU-C sections: SAS No. 143 addresses the auditor’s responsibilities
relating to accounting estimates, including fair value accounting
estimates and related disclosures, in an audit of financial statements. 
          <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
          <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">AU-C section 540</olink>
          <emphasis role="italic">Auditing
Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value
Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
          <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_240">Section 240</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement
Audit</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_260">Section 260</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication With Those
Charged With Governance</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_580">Section 580</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial
Statements</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                , 
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">Section 701</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Key Audit Matters in the
Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        <para>
          This SAS is effective for audits of financial statements for
periods ending on or after December 15, 2023. A link to the final
SAS and other resources can be found on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org.
          <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
        </para>
      </paraBlock>
      <section id="aag-afi9_13" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.13</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.13</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Although Martin has invested in financial
instruments in the past, it has not invested in a security with a
feature that constitutes an embedded derivative. However, Martin’s
board of directors exercises proper oversight and authorization of
all investing activities. In regard to the convertible bond investment,
the board took an active role in understanding the risks of the investment
and how it was priced and, ultimately, approving the transaction.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi9_14" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.14</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.14</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Martin also has other characteristics
of a strong control environment:</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">The bonds are held and serviced by a well-known
bank with an investment department that is widely respected. </para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Management has high integrity and ethical values.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Management philosophy and operating style are commensurate
with the demands and needs of a well-regarded business organization.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Management carefully assigns authority and responsibility
to appropriate personnel.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Human resource policies and procedures are designed
in a way that the most qualified individuals are attracted to the
organization, hired, trained, rewarded, and retained.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi9_summary_of_accounting" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Summary of Accounting</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Summary of Accounting</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi9_15" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.15</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.15</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Under FASB ASC 815, the convertible bonds
are hybrid instruments that should be separated into two components:
straight interest-bearing bonds and a conversion option. Each component
should be accounted for separately, with the bonds (the host contract)
accounted for as available-for-sale securities under FASB ASC 320
and the option accounted for as an embedded derivative under FASB
ASC 815. Martin estimates the fair value of the straight bonds by
subtracting the fair value of the embedded option from the basis of
the hybrid instrument.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi9_types_of_potential_misstatements" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Types of Potential Misstatements</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Types of Potential Misstatements</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi9_16" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.16</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.16</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">There could be departures from the recognition
measurement and disclosure requirements of FASB ASC 815 for the embedded
derivative instrument, such as</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">In addition, there is the risk of departures
from the measurement and disclosure requirements of FASB ASC 320 for
the straight bonds.</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>a failure to identify the option and account for it
separately from the straight bond.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>errors in determining the fair values of the components
when allocating the purchase price and at subsequent measurement dates.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>errors in accounting for changes in fair value.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>inadequate presentation and disclosure in the financial
statements.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi9_inherent_risk_factors_to" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for This Transaction
in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for
This Transaction in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi9_17" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.17</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.17</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The risk factors the auditor considered
are</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">Estimating the fair value of the option requires
judgment in applying an option-pricing model and determining the underlying
assumptions. Based on the preceding factors, the auditor determines
inherent risk to be high.</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>the option may not be identified because it is a feature
of the convertible bonds.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>due to the lack of experience of Martin’s accounting
personnel with this type of transaction, the option may not be accounted
for separately from the straight bonds. </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi9_control_risk" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Control Risk</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Control Risk</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi9_18" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.18</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.18</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Martin’s investing department has a history
of investing in debt and equity securities. Controls over the department’s
activities include</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>segregation of duties between purchase and sale transaction
authorization, bookkeeping, and custody.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>reasonably good management oversight.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>supervisory personnel in the department review ongoing
fair value calculations prepared internally and provided by third
parties, mark-to-market adjustments, and related journal entries.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi9_19" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.19</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.19</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">However, the purchase of the convertible
bonds is the first transaction of this nature for Martin. Certain
risks associated with accounting for this instrument (for example,
the identification of, and separate accounting for, the embedded derivative
and use of the binomial option-pricing model) are not addressed by
Martin’s existing controls. Although some policies have been put in
place to monitor the status of the convertible bonds, the policies
have not been functioning long enough to determine their effectiveness.
For these reasons, control risk is assessed as high.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi9_timing_of_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Timing of Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Timing of Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi9_20" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.20</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.20</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The relevant assertions associated with
this transaction will be substantively tested at year-end. This decision
is influenced by the assessment of control risk as high, the fact
that this is an isolated transaction, and the design of the substantive
procedures subsequently discussed. </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi9_materiality" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Materiality</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Materiality</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi9_21" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.21</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.21</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The convertible bonds are considered to
be material to the financial statements.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi9_design_of_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Design of Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Design of Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi9_22" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>9.22</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">9.22</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          The auditor defined the following objectives
and related procedures for the audit of assertions about the convertible
bonds:
          <footnote id="aag-afi9_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
            <para>In this case study, the entity properly accounted for the embedded
derivative. However, if the entity had not separately accounted for
the embedded derivative, the auditor could have detected it by reading
the agreements supporting the bonds.</para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
        <table frame="all" id="aag-afi9_table5" role="ps_table_center">
          <title/>
          <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.96in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="2.99in"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Audit Objective </emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Procedure</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The hybrid instrument was purchased during the reporting period
and exists at the end of the reporting period.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Examine the broker’s advice for the purchase and Martin,
Inc.’s (Martin’s) canceled check or other evidence of Martin’s cash
disbursement. </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>At year-end, confirm existence, rights and obligations,
and the description of the convertible bonds with the custodian bank
that serves as safekeeping agent. </para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The hybrid instrument was executed according to management’s
authorizations.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Compare the terms of the convertible bonds with the
investment guidelines approved by the board of directors.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Examine signed authorization by the CFO.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>The straight bonds and option were properly accounted for separately. </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>
                        Read the underlying agreement, and compare its provisions
with the separation criteria prescribed by paragraphs 2–3 of FASB  (ASC) 815-15-25.
                        <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
                      </para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Both the host instrument and option are measured using appropriate
fair values.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>
                        Compare the fair values of the convertible bonds and
similar straight bonds with quoted prices published in the 
                        <emphasis role="italic">Wall Street Journal.</emphasis>
                      </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Ensure that total fair value of the separate components
does not exceed the fair value of the convertible bonds.</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Test the fair value calculation of the option by one
of the following:</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_2">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Testing management’s calculation and underlying assumptions</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Reperforming the calculation</para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                      <para>
                        Engaging a specialist to recompute the value in accordance
with the guidance provided in AU-C section 620B, .
                        <emphasis role="italic">Using the Work of an Auditor’s Specialist</emphasis>
                      </para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Ensure that the changes in fair value of the host
contract and embedded derivative are properly recorded in comprehensive
income and income, respectively.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Interest income has been properly recorded.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Perform analytical procedures to test the reasonableness
of interest income, including amortization of the original discount.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <para>Presentation is appropriate and disclosure adequate.</para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                    <listitem>
                      <para>Compare the presentation and disclosure with the requirements
of FASB ASC 320 and 815.</para>
                    </listitem>
                  </itemizedlist>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>