<root id="aag-afi4_15" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>4.15</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">4.15</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">Designing substantive procedures includes
consideration of</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        the use of analytical procedures. Although analytical procedures undertaken by the auditor
can be effective as risk assessment procedures to provide the auditor
with information about an entity’s business, they may be less effective
as substantive procedures when performed alone because the complex
interplay of the drivers of the valuation often mask any unusual trends
that might arise.
        <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
          <para>
            Paragraph .06 of AU-C section
315B requires the auditor to apply analytical procedures as risk assessment
procedures to assist in assessing the risks of material misstatement
in order to provide a basis for designing and implementing responses
to the assessed risks. Paragraph .06 of AU-C section 520B, , requires the auditor
to use analytical procedures in forming an overall conclusion on the
financial statements. Analytical procedures may also be applied at
other stages of the audit.
            <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Analytical Procedures</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>nonroutine transactions. Many financial transactions
are negotiated contracts between an entity and its counterparty (often
known as over the counter [OTC]). To the extent that financial instrument
transactions are not routine and outside an entity’s normal activities,
a substantive audit approach may be the most effective means of achieving
the planned audit objectives. In instances when financial instrument
transactions are not undertaken routinely, the auditor’s responses
to assessed risk, including designing and performing audit procedures,
take into consideration the entity’s possible lack of experience in
this area. </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>availability of evidence. For example, when the entity
uses a third-party pricing source, evidence concerning the relevant
financial statement assertions may not be available from the entity.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>procedures performed in other audit areas. Procedures
performed in other financial statement areas may provide evidence
about the completeness of financial instrument transactions. These
procedures may include tests of subsequent cash receipts and payments
and the search for unrecorded liabilities.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the selection of items for testing. In some cases,
the financial instrument portfolio will comprise instruments with
varying complexity and risk. In such cases, judgmental selection of
items may be useful.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>