<root id="aag-afi4" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Chapter 4 — Assessing and Responding to the Risks of
Material Misstatements</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Chapter 4</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">Assessing and Responding to the
Risks of Material Misstatements</subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi4_update_4-1">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
4-1 : Auditor Reporting
and Amendments, Including Amendments Addressing Disclosures in the
Audit of Financial Statements
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In May 2019,
the AICPA issued Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 134, . This suite of auditor reporting standards includes a new (although
not required) , , and replaces the following AU-C sections in AICPA :
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditor Reporting and Amendments, Including Amendments
Addressing Disclosures in the Audit of Financial Statements</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Key Audit Matters
in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Professional Standards</emphasis>
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">AU-C section
701</olink>
      <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
        <para>
          All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
          <emphasis role="italic">
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial
Statements</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_705">Section 705</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent
Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_706">Section 706</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Emphasis-of-Matter Paragraphs and Other-Matter
Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>SAS No. 134, which also amends various
other AU-C sections, addresses the auditor’s responsibility to form
an opinion on the financial statements and the form and content of
the auditor’s report issued as a result of an audit of financial statements.
It also addresses the auditor’s responsibilities, and the form and
content of the auditor’s report, when the auditor concludes that a
modification to the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements
is necessary, and when additional communications are necessary in
the auditor’s report.</para>
    <para>
      At the time SAS No. 134 was originally
issued, the amendments were intended to become effective for audits
of financial statements for periods ending on or after December 15,
2020 and early implementation was not permitted; however, in May 2020,
the AICPA issued SAS No. 141, .
      <emphasis role="italic">Amendment to
the Effective Dates of SAS Nos. 134–140</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>SAS
No. 141 delays the effective dates of SAS Nos. 134–140, and the amendments
to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140, from December 15, 2020 to
December 15, 2021, in order to provide more time for firms to implement
these SASs in light of the effect of the coronavirus pandemic. SAS
Nos. 134, 136–137, and 139–140, as originally issued, do not permit
early implementation; however, SAS No. 141 amends these SASs to no
longer preclude early implementation. </para>
    <para>SAS Nos. 134 and
136–140 are interrelated because the Auditing Standards Board (ASB)
amended the auditor reporting model adopted in SAS No. 134 with the
issuance of the subsequent SASs. The effective dates were aligned
so that these SASs would be implemented as a suite, primarily to accommodate
the amendments to the auditor reporting model. Accordingly, the ASB
recommends that all of these SASs be implemented concurrently. SAS
No. 141 was effective upon issuance.</para>
  </paraBlock>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi4_update_4-2">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
4-2 : Audit Evidence
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In July 2020, the AICPA issued ,  (AU-C sec. 500), which supersedes AU-C section
500A, , and amends
the following AU-C sections:
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">SAS No. 142</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit
Evidence</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_315">Section 315</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment
and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_330">Section 330</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response
to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_530">Section 530</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Sampling</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">Section
540A</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates,
Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
       explains what constitutes audit evidence in an
audit of financial statements and sets out attributes of information
that are taken into account by the auditor when evaluating information
to be used as audit evidence.
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">SAS No. 142</olink>
    </para>
    <para>
      This SAS is effective for
audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after December
15, 2022. A link to the final SAS and other resources can be found
on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi4_update_4-3">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
4-3 : Auditing Accounting
Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related
Disclosures
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In July 2020, the AICPA issued ,  (AU-C sec. 540), which supersedes , , and amends the following AU-C
sections: 
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">AU-C section 540A</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_240">Section 240</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement
Audit</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_260">Section 260</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication With Those
Charged With Governance </emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_580">Section 580</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">Section 701</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
       addresses the auditor’s responsibilities relating
to accounting estimates, including fair value accounting estimates
and related disclosures, in an audit of financial statements.
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
    </para>
    <para>
      This SAS is effective for audits of financial statements for
periods ending on or after December 15, 2023. A link to the final
SAS and other resources can be found on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <section id="aag-afi4_assessing_the_risks_of" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi4_01" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.01</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.01</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        The auditor’s assessment of the identified
risks at the assertion level in accordance with AU-C section 315B, , includes evaluating
the design and implementation of internal control. It provides a basis for considering the appropriate audit
approach for designing and performing further audit procedures in
accordance with AU-C section 330B, , including both substantive procedures
and tests of controls. The approach taken is influenced by the auditor’s
understanding of internal control relevant to the audit, including
the strength of the control environment and any risk management function,
the size and complexity of the entity’s operations, and whether the
auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement include
an expectation that controls are operating effectively. 
        <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing
the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Performing
Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the
Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
          <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_02" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.02</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.02</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s assessment of the risk of
material misstatement at the assertion level may change during the
course of the audit as additional information is obtained. Remaining
alert during the audit (for example, when inspecting records or documents)
may assist the auditor in identifying arrangements or other information
that may indicate the existence of financial instruments that management
has not previously identified or disclosed to the auditor. Such records
and documents may include, for example</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>minutes of meetings of those charged with governance.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>specific invoices from, and correspondence with, the
entity’s professional advisers.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_overall_considerations_relating_to" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Overall Considerations Relating to Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Overall Considerations Relating to Financial
Instruments</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi4_03" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.03</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.03</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Paragraph .02 of AU-C section 540B, , explains
that the degree of estimation uncertainty affects the risk of material
misstatement of accounting estimates. The use of more complex financial
instruments, such as those that have a high level of uncertainty and
variability of future cash flows, may lead to an increased risk of
material misstatement, particularly regarding valuation. Other matters
affecting the risk of material misstatement include the
          <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value
Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
        </para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>volume of financial instruments to which the entity
is exposed.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>terms of the financial instrument, including whether
the financial instrument itself includes other financial instruments.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>nature of the financial instruments.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_the_use_of_assertions" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>The Use of Assertions</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Use of Assertions</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi4_04" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.04</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.04</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Assertions used by the auditor to consider
the different types of potential misstatements that may occur fall
into the following three categories and may take the following forms:
          <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
            <para>
              Paragraph .A114 of AU-C section 315B, .
              <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks
of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Assertions about classes of transactions and events for the period
under audit, such as the following:
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          i.. Transactions and events that have been recorded have occurred and
pertain to the entity.
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">Occurrence</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          ii.. All transactions and events that should have been recorded have
been recorded.
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">Completeness</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          iii.. Amounts and other data relating to recorded transactions and events
have been recorded appropriately.
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">Accuracy</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          iv.. Transactions and events have been recorded in the correct accounting
period.
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">Cutoff</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          v.. Transactions and events have been recorded in the proper accounts.
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">Classification</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Assertions about account balances at period-end, such as the following:
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          i.. Assets, liabilities, and equity interests exist.
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">Existence</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          ii.. The entity holds or controls the rights
to assets, and liabilities are the obligations of the entity.
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">Rights
and obligations</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          iii.. All assets, liabilities, and equity interests that should have
been recorded have been recorded.
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">Completeness</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          iv.. Assets, liabilities, and equity interests
are included in the financial statements at appropriate amounts, and
any resulting valuation or allocation adjustments are appropriately
recorded.
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">Valuation
and allocation</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Assertions about presentation and disclosure, such as the following:
          <emphasis role="italic">
            c.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          i.. Disclosed events, transactions,
and other matters have occurred and pertain to the entity.
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">Occurrence
and rights and obligations</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          ii.. All disclosures that should have been included in the financial
statements have been included.
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">Completeness</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          iii.. Financial information is appropriately
presented and described, and disclosures are clearly expressed.
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">Classification
and understandability</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
          iv.. Financial and other information is disclosed
fairly and in appropriate amounts.
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">Accuracy
and valuation</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_05" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.05</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.05</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Paragraph .A41 of AU-C section 200B, , states that the risks of material misstatement
at the assertion level consist of two components: inherent risk and
control risk. The following exhibit summarizes the examples of considerations
that might affect the auditor’s assessment of the inherent risk for
assertions about financial instruments.
          <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the
Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted Auditing
Standards</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para id="aag-afi4_exhibit_4-1" role="ps_sub_heading">
          <emphasis role="bold">Exhibit 4-1 — Characteristics That Might Affect Inherent
Risk</emphasis>
        </para>
        <table frame="all" id="aag-afi4_table1" role="ps_table_center">
          <tgroup align="left" cols="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <colspec colname="c1" colsep="0" colwidth="1.36in"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.49in"/>
            <colspec colname="c5" colwidth="1.52in"/>
            <colspec colname="c7" colwidth="1.27in"/>
            <thead>
              <row rowsep="0">
                <entry align="center" nameend="c7" namest="c1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Indications of</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Characteristic</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Higher Risk</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Lower Risk</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
                <entry align="center" colsep="0" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                  <para>
                    <emphasis role="italic">Related Assertion</emphasis>
                  </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Management’s objective</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Financial instruments used as hedges</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Financial instruments held as investments</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0">
                  <para>Rights and obligations, valuation, and presentation and disclosure </para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Management’s intent and ability</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Accounting treatment based on management’s intent and ability</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Accounting treatment based on objective criteria</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0">
                  <para>Valuation and presentation and disclosure</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Complexity of financial instruments</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>More complex instrument (for example, futures contracts, swaps,
or stock appreciation rights)</para>
                  <para>Collaterized mortgage obligations</para>
                  <para>Stock warrants</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Less complex instrument (for example, common stock traded on
an exchange or U.S government agency debt)</para>
                  <para>U.S. Treasury securities</para>
                  <para>Common stock</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Rights and obligations, valuation, and presentation and disclosure</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Relationship of the derivative to the hedged item or underlying
security</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Low degree of correlation</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>High degree of correlation</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="0">
                  <para>Valuation and presentation and disclosure</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Exchange of cash at inception</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>No exchange of cash at inception</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Cash exchanged at inception</para>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <para>Completeness and presentation and disclosure</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Freestanding versus embedded</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Embedded derivative</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Freestanding derivative</para>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <para>Completeness and presentation and disclosure</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Credit risk</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>High counterparty credit risk</para>
                  <para>High nonpayment risk</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Low counterparty credit risk</para>
                  <para>Low nonpayment risk</para>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <para>Valuation</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Market risk</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Volatile values or interest rates</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Stable values or interest rates</para>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <para>Valuation</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Nature of security and related accounting principles</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Rapidly evolving</para>
                </entry>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Relatively stable</para>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <para>All</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry colsep="1">
                  <para>Assumptions about future conditions</para>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <para>Significant subjective assumptions</para>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <para>Relatively few, objective, and verifiable assumptions</para>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <para>All</para>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_fraud_risk_factors" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Fraud Risk Factors</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">
          Fraud Risk Factors
          <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
            <para>
              AU-C section 240B, , addresses fraud risk
factors.
              <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of
Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi4_06" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.06</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.06</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Incentives for fraudulent financial reporting
by employees may exist when compensation arrangements are dependent
on returns made from the use of financial instruments. Understanding
how an entity’s compensation policies interact with its risk appetite
and the incentives this may create for its management and traders
may be important in assessing the risk of fraud.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_07" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.07</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.07</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Difficult financial market conditions
may give rise to increased incentives for management or employees
to engage in fraudulent financial reporting to, for example</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">For example, at times of market instability,
unexpected losses may arise from extreme fluctuations in market prices,
from unanticipated declines in asset prices, through trading misjudgments,
or for other reasons. In addition, financing difficulties create pressures
on management concerned about the solvency of the business.</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>protect personal bonuses.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>hide employee or management fraud or error.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>avoid breaching regulatory, liquidity, or borrowing
limits.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>avoid reporting losses. </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_08" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.08</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.08</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Misappropriation of assets and fraudulent
financial reporting may often involve override of controls that otherwise
may appear to be operating effectively. This may include override
of controls over data, assumptions, and detailed process controls
that allow losses and theft to be hidden. For example, difficult market
conditions may increase pressure to conceal or offset trades as management
attempts to recover losses.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_factors_to_consider_in" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Factors to Consider in Determining Whether and to What
Extent to Test the Operating Effectiveness of Controls </titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Factors to Consider in Determining Whether
and to What Extent to Test the Operating Effectiveness of Controls </title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi4_09" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.09</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.09</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">An expectation that controls are operating
effectively may be more common when dealing with an entity with well-established
controls; therefore, testing controls may be an effective means of
obtaining audit evidence. When an entity has a trading function, substantive
procedures alone may not provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence
due to the volume of contracts and the different systems used. Tests
of controls, however, will not be sufficient on their own because
the auditor is required by paragraph .18 of AU-C section 330B to design
and perform substantive procedures for all relevant assertions related
to each material class of transactions, account balance, and disclosure.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_10" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.10</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.10</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Entities with a high volume of trading
and use of financial instruments may have more sophisticated controls
and an effective risk management function; therefore, the auditor
may be more likely to test controls in obtaining evidence about the
following:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>The occurrence, completeness, valuation, accuracy,
and cutoff of the transactions</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The existence, rights and obligations, and completeness
of account balances</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_11" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.11</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.11</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">In those entities with relatively few
financial instrument transactions</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>management and those charged with governance may have
only a limited understanding of financial instruments and how they
affect the business.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the entity may only have a few different types of
instruments, with little or no interaction between them.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              there is unlikely to be a complex control environment
(for example, the controls described in , "Internal Control," of this guide may not be in
place at the entity).
              <olink targetptr="aag-afi3">chapter 3</olink>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>management may use pricing information from third-party
pricing sources to value their instruments.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>controls over the use of pricing information from
third-party pricing sources may be less sophisticated.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_12" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.12</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.12</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">When an entity has relatively few transactions
involving financial instruments, it may be relatively easy for the
auditor to obtain an understanding of the entity’s objectives for
using the financial instruments and the characteristics of the instruments.
In such circumstances, much of the audit evidence is likely to be
substantive in nature; the auditor may perform the majority of the
audit work at year-end; and third-party confirmations are likely to
provide evidence in relation to the completeness, accuracy, and existence
of the transactions. </para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_responding_to_the_risks" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Responding to the Risks of Material Misstatement</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Responding to the Risks of Material
Misstatement</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi4_13" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.13</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.13</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Paragraph .06 of AU-C section 330B requires
the auditor to design and perform further audit procedures whose nature,
timing, and extent are based on, and responsive to, the assessed risks
of material misstatement at the relevant assertion level. In accordance
with paragraph .A10 of AU-C section 500B, , further audit procedures comprise tests
of controls and substantive procedures.  of this guide provides guidance on obtaining an
understanding about internal control,  provides guidance on tests of controls, and  provide guidance
on substantive procedures. , "Examples of Control Objectives, Related Controls, and
Illustrative Tests of Controls for Financial Instruments," of this
guide provides examples of control objectives, related controls, and
illustrative tests of controls for financial instruments.
        <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi3">Chapter 3</olink>
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi4_14">paragraph 4.14</olink>
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi4_15">paragraphs 4.15–.34</olink>
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appC">Appendix
C</olink>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_tests_of_controls" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Tests of Controls</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Tests of Controls</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi4_14" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.14</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.14</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">In reaching a decision on the nature,
timing, and extent of testing of controls, the auditor may consider
factors such as the following:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>The nature, frequency, and volume of financial instrument
transactions.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The strength of controls, including whether controls
are appropriately designed to respond to the risks associated with
an entity’s volume of financial instrument transactions and whether
a governance framework over the entity’s financial instrument activities
exists.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The importance of particular controls to the overall
control objectives and processes in place at the entity, including
the sophistication of the information systems to support financial
instrument transactions.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The monitoring of controls and identified deficiencies
in control procedures.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The issues the controls are intended to address (for
example, controls related to the exercise of judgments compared with
controls over supporting data). Substantive procedures are likely
to be more effective than relying on controls related to the exercise
of judgment.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The competency of those involved in the control activities
(for example whether the entity has adequate capacity, including during
periods of stress, and ability to establish and verify valuations
for the financial instruments to which it is exposed).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The frequency of performance of these control activities.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The level of precision the controls are intended to
achieve.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The evidence of performance of control activities.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The timing of key financial instrument transactions
(for example, whether they are close to period-end).</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_substantive_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Substantive Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Substantive Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi4_15" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.15</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.15</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Designing substantive procedures includes
consideration of</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              the use of analytical procedures. Although analytical procedures undertaken by the auditor
can be effective as risk assessment procedures to provide the auditor
with information about an entity’s business, they may be less effective
as substantive procedures when performed alone because the complex
interplay of the drivers of the valuation often mask any unusual trends
that might arise.
              <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
                <para>
                  Paragraph .06 of AU-C section
315B requires the auditor to apply analytical procedures as risk assessment
procedures to assist in assessing the risks of material misstatement
in order to provide a basis for designing and implementing responses
to the assessed risks. Paragraph .06 of AU-C section 520B, , requires the auditor
to use analytical procedures in forming an overall conclusion on the
financial statements. Analytical procedures may also be applied at
other stages of the audit.
                  <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Analytical Procedures</emphasis>
                </para>
              </footnote>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>nonroutine transactions. Many financial transactions
are negotiated contracts between an entity and its counterparty (often
known as over the counter [OTC]). To the extent that financial instrument
transactions are not routine and outside an entity’s normal activities,
a substantive audit approach may be the most effective means of achieving
the planned audit objectives. In instances when financial instrument
transactions are not undertaken routinely, the auditor’s responses
to assessed risk, including designing and performing audit procedures,
take into consideration the entity’s possible lack of experience in
this area. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>availability of evidence. For example, when the entity
uses a third-party pricing source, evidence concerning the relevant
financial statement assertions may not be available from the entity.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>procedures performed in other audit areas. Procedures
performed in other financial statement areas may provide evidence
about the completeness of financial instrument transactions. These
procedures may include tests of subsequent cash receipts and payments
and the search for unrecorded liabilities.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the selection of items for testing. In some cases,
the financial instrument portfolio will comprise instruments with
varying complexity and risk. In such cases, judgmental selection of
items may be useful.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_16" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.16</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.16</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">For example, in the case of an asset-backed
security, in responding to the risks of material misstatement for
such a security, the auditor may consider performing some of the following
audit procedures related to the valuation assertion:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Examining contractual documentation to understand
the terms of the security, the underlying collateral, and the rights
of each class of security holder</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Inquiring about management’s process of estimating
cash flows</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Evaluating the reasonableness of assumptions, such
as prepayment rates, default rates, and loss reserves</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Obtaining an understanding of the method used to determine
the cash flow "waterfall"</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Comparing the results of the fair value measurement
with the valuations of other financial instruments with similar underlying
collateral and terms</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Reperforming calculations</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_timing_of_the_auditors" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Timing of the Auditor’s Procedures</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">
            Timing of the Auditor’s Procedures
            <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
              <para>
                Paragraphs .12 and .23–.24 of AU-C section 330B, , establish
requirements when the auditor performs procedures at an interim period
and explain how such audit evidence can be used.
                <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed
Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi4_17" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.17</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.17</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">After assessing the risks associated with
financial instruments, the engagement team determines the timing of
planned tests of controls and substantive audit procedures. The timing
of planned audit procedures varies depending on a number of factors,
including the frequency of the control operation, the significance
of the activity being controlled, and the related risk of material
misstatement. </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi4_18" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.18</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.18</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Although the auditor may decide that the
most efficient and effective strategy is to undertake most of the
audit procedures in relation to valuation and presentation close to
period-end, audit procedures in relation to other assertions, such
as completeness and existence, may be tested at an interim period.
For example, tests of controls may be performed at an interim period
for more routine controls, such as IT controls and authorizations
for new products. Also, it may be effective to test the operating
effectiveness of controls over new product approval by gathering evidence
at an interim period of the appropriate level of management sign-off
on a new financial instrument.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi4_19" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.19</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.19</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Auditors may perform some tests on models
as of an interim date (for example, by comparing the output of the
model with market transactions). Another possible interim procedure
for instruments with observable inputs is to test the reasonableness
of the pricing information provided by a third-party pricing source. </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi4_20" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.20</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.20</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Areas of more significant judgment are
often tested close to, or at, period-end because</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>valuations can change significantly in a short period
of time, making it difficult to compare and reconcile interim balances
with comparable information at the balance sheet date.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>an entity may engage in an increased volume of financial
instrument transactions between an interim period and year-end.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>manual journal entries may only be made after the
end of the accounting period.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>nonroutine or significant transactions may take place
late in the accounting period.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_procedures_relating_to_completeness" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Procedures Relating to Completeness, Accuracy, Existence,
Occurrence, and Rights and Obligations</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Procedures Relating to Completeness,
Accuracy, Existence, Occurrence, and Rights and Obligations</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi4_inspection" role="ls_level_6">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>Inspection</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_subsubsub_heading">Inspection</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <section id="aag-afi4_21" role="ls_level_8">
            <sectioninfo>
              <titleabbrev>4.21</titleabbrev>
              <title role="ps_para_number">4.21</title>
            </sectioninfo>
            <para role="ps_para_number">Traded financial instruments typically
are maintained in electronic form and street name and, accordingly,
cannot be inspected. For example, even though stock certificates are
on file at a depository (for example, the Depository Trust Company),
those shares are allocated to broker-dealers, and the issuer has no
record of who owns shares. The broker-dealers send documents such
as proxy statements to stockholders. Confirmation of the security
provides evidence about the existence of financial instruments. Evidence
about existence also may be gathered by examining supporting documentation,
such as</para>
            <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
              <listitem>
                <para>instructions to portfolio managers or directed custodians.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>transaction confirmations.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>agreements.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>contracts.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>minutes of investment committees.</para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
          </section>
          <section id="aag-afi4_22" role="ls_level_8">
            <sectioninfo>
              <titleabbrev>4.22</titleabbrev>
              <title role="ps_para_number">4.22</title>
            </sectioninfo>
            <para role="ps_para_number">If the physical inspection of financial
instruments is possible, the auditor might consider the following:</para>
            <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
              <listitem>
                <para>
                  . Typically, financial instruments would be inspected at the same
time cash and other negotiable assets (for example, bearer bonds)
are counted. If financial instruments, cash, and other negotiable
assets cannot be counted at the same time, the auditor might use other
means to prevent the substitution of one type of negotiable asset
for another. For example, bags, boxes, safes, or whole rooms may be
sealed and counted at a later time.
                  <emphasis role="italic">The timing of the inspection</emphasis>
                </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>
                  . The following attributes normally can be observed when inspecting
financial instruments:
                  <emphasis role="italic">What to look for</emphasis>
                </para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
            <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
              <listitem>
                <para>The name of the issuer</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>The description of the security</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>The name of the owner of the security</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>Any evidence of pledging or restrictions on disposal
shown on the certificate</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>The number of shares of stock or face amount of debt
financial instruments</para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
          </section>
          <section id="aag-afi4_23" role="ls_level_8">
            <sectioninfo>
              <titleabbrev>4.23</titleabbrev>
              <title role="ps_para_number">4.23</title>
            </sectioninfo>
            <para role="ps_para_number">As previously stated, some financial instruments
do not involve an initial exchange of cash. Also, derivatives may
be embedded in agreements and difficult to identify. Finally, financial
instruments may be donated to entities such as not-for-profit organizations.
When inspecting documents such as minutes, agreements, and contracts,
the auditor’s overriding objective is to identify financial instruments
that may not have been recognized in the accounting records of the
entity.</para>
          </section>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_confirmations" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Confirmations</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Confirmations</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi4_24" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.24</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.24</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            Paragraph .A4 of AU-C section 505B, , states that the design
of a confirmation request may directly affect the confirmation response
rate and the reliability and nature of the audit evidence obtained
from responses. For example, a custodian would be able to confirm
the existence of financial instruments but may be unable to confirm
their valuation, the entity’s rights and obligations with respect
to the financial instruments, or their completeness. Additionally,
certain respondents’ accounting systems may facilitate the confirmation
of single transactions rather than entire account balances, or respondents
may not be able to confirm the balances of their installment loans,
but they may be able to confirm whether their payments are up to date,
the amount of the payment, and the key terms of their loans. Understanding
the entity’s arrangements and transactions with third parties is key
to determining the information to be confirmed. 
            <emphasis role="italic">External Confirmations</emphasis>
          </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi4_25" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.25</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.25</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            Paragraph .07 of AU-C section 505B requires the auditor to select the appropriate
confirming party. AU-C section 505B further states that responses
to confirmation requests provide more relevant and reliable audit
evidence when confirmation requests are sent to a confirming party
who the auditor believes is knowledgeable about the information to
be confirmed. For example, a financial institution official who is
knowledgeable about the transactions or arrangements for which confirmation
is requested may be the most appropriate person at the financial institution
from whom to request confirmation.
            <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
          </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi4_26" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.26</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.26</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">When designing confirmations for financial
instruments, auditors might consider confirming the following attributes,
as applicable:</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>The name of the issuer</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>The description of the financial instruments</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>The name of the owner of the financial instruments
or the parties to the financial instrument</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>The terms of the financial instrument</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>Any evidence of pledging or restrictions on disposal</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>The investment certificate numbers on the documents</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>The number of shares of stock or face amount of debt
securities</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi4_27" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.27</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.27</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraph .12 of AU-C section 505B states
that in the case of each nonresponse, the auditor should perform alternative
audit procedures to obtain relevant and reliable audit evidence. Examples
include the following:</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>Examining source documents, such as invoices or broker’s
statements</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>Inspecting executed agreements</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>Examining cash receipts, disbursements, and trade
confirmations subsequent to year-end</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi4_28" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.28</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.28</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            When an electronic confirmation process
or system is used, the auditor’s consideration of the risks includes
the consideration of risks that the electronic confirmation process
is not secure or is improperly controlled. An electronic confirmation system or process that creates
a secure confirmation environment may mitigate the risks of interception
or alteration. Creating a secure confirmation environment depends
on the process or mechanism used by the auditor and respondent to
minimize the possibility that the results will be compromised because
of interception or alteration of the confirmation. If the auditor
is satisfied that such a system or process is secure and properly
controlled, evidence provided by responses received using the system
or process may be considered reliable. Various means might be used
to validate the source of the electronic information. For example,
the use of encryption, electronic digital signatures, and procedures
to verify website authenticity may improve the security of the electronic
confirmation system or process. If a system or process that facilitates
electronic confirmation between the auditor and respondent is in place,
and the auditor plans to rely on the controls over such a system or
process, an assurance trust services report (for example, Systrust)
or another assurance report on that system or process may assist the
auditor in assessing the design and operating effectiveness of the
electronic and manual controls with respect to that system or process.
Such an assurance report may address the risks described in paragraph
.A13 of AU-C section 505B. If these risks are not adequately addressed
in such a report, the auditor may perform additional procedures to
address those risks. For example, the auditor may determine that it is appropriate
to address such risks by directly contacting the purported sender
(for example, by telephone) to validate the identity of the sender
of the response and to validate that the information received by the
auditor corresponds to what was transmitted by the sender.
            <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
              <para>
                Paragraph .A13 of AU-C section 505B, .
                <emphasis role="italic">External Confirmations</emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
            <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
              <para>Paragraph .A15 of AU-C section 505B.</para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_analytical_procedures" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Analytical Procedures</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Analytical Procedures</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi4_29" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.29</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.29</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Analytical procedures are based on relationships
between data. The more predictable the relationships, the more precise
the auditor’s expectation of the financial statement account. The
value of many financial instruments can be highly volatile, making
valuation assertions about them ill-suited to testing via analytical
procedures. Additionally, the accounting for many financial instruments
is based on underlying assumptions that, oftentimes, are quite subjective.
Finally, the accounting for financial instruments may be highly dependent
on management’s intention. For example, the classification of debt
and equity securities depends on management’s ability and intent with
regard to holding those financial instruments. The accounting for
derivatives depends on management’s objectives in entering into those
financial instruments’ transactions.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi4_30" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.30</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.30</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">For these reasons, performing analytical
procedures alone may not sufficiently reduce audit risk for some assertions
about financial instruments. For example, analytical procedures would
not be effective in determining whether an embedded derivative has
been properly recognized in the financial statements or in evaluating
the fair value of a financial instrument whose value fluctuates greatly.
However, they may be effective in pointing out unrecorded derivatives,
such as interest rate swaps that contractually require no cash at
inception. For example, a difference from an expectation that interest
expense will be a fixed percentage of a note based on the interest
provisions of the underlying agreement may indicate the existence
of an interest rate swap agreement. Also, analytical procedures based
on expectations of relationships between income and assets may provide
some evidence about existence and completeness assertions.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi4_31" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.31</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.31</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Analytical procedures may also be effective
in corroborating the occurrence of income and expenses and, sometimes,
gains and losses associated with a financial instrument. For example,
the absence of a material difference from an expectation that interest
income will be a fixed percentage of a debt security based on the
effective interest rate when the entity purchased the security provides
evidence about the existence of the income (and the security). However,
auditors might consider that the income, expenses, gains, and losses
associated with a financial instrument may involve a complex interplay
of many factors. For example, if the fair value of a derivative is
derived from the interrelationship of exchange rates, interest rates,
rate differentials, or a combination of these, any attempts to develop
an expectation of a financial statement amount may be difficult.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi4_32" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.32</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.32</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Many of the auditor’s procedures can be
used to address a number of assertions. For example, procedures to
address the existence of an account balance at period-end will also
address the occurrence of a class of transactions and may also assist
in establishing proper cut-off because financial instruments arise
from legal contracts, and by verifying the accuracy of the recording
of the transaction, the auditor can also verify its existence and
obtain evidence to support the occurrence and rights and obligations
assertions at the same time and can confirm that transactions are
recorded in the correct accounting period. </para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_other_procedures" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Other Procedures</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Other Procedures</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi4_33" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.33</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.33</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Other procedures that may provide audit
evidence to support the completeness, accuracy, and existence assertions
include</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>external confirmation of bank accounts, trades, and
custodian statements. This can be done by direct confirmation with
the counterparty (including the use of bank confirmations) in which
a reply is sent to the auditor directly. Alternatively, this information
may be obtained from the counterparty’s systems through a data feed.
When this is done, controls to prevent tampering with the computer
systems through which the information is transmitted may be considered
by the auditor in evaluating the reliability of the evidence from
the confirmation. If confirmations are not received, the auditor may
be able to obtain evidence by reviewing contracts and testing relevant
controls. However, external confirmations often do not provide adequate
audit evidence with respect to the valuation assertion, though they
may assist in identifying any side agreements. </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>reviewing reconciliations of statements or data feeds
from custodians with the entity’s own records. This may necessitate
evaluating IT controls around and within automated reconciliation
processes and evaluating whether reconciling items are properly understood
and resolved.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>reviewing journal entries and the controls over the
recording of such entries. This may assist in, for example,</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
          <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
            <listitem>
              <para>determining if entries have been made by employees
other than those authorized to do so.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>identifying unusual or inappropriate end-of-period
journal entries that may be relevant to fraud risk.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>reading individual contracts and reviewing supporting
documentation of the entity’s financial instrument transactions, including
accounting records, thereby verifying existence and rights and obligations.
For example, an auditor may read individual contracts associated with
financial instruments and review supporting documentation, including
the accounting entries made when the contract was initially recorded,
and may also subsequently review accounting entries made for valuation
purposes. Doing so allows the auditor to evaluate whether the complexities
inherent in a transaction have been fully identified and reflected
in the accounts. Legal arrangements and their associated risks need
to be considered by those with suitable expertise to ensure that rights
exist.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>performing tests of controls to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of relevant
controls.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>reviewing the entity’s complaints’ management systems.
Unrecorded transactions may result in the entity’s failure to make
a cash payment to a counterparty and may be detected by reviewing
complaints received. </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>reviewing master netting arrangements to identify
unrecorded instruments.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi4_34" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.34</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.34</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">These procedures are particularly important
for some financial instruments, such as derivatives or guarantees,
because they may not have a large initial investment, meaning it may
be hard to identify their existence. For example, embedded derivatives
are often contained in contracts for nonfinancial instruments that
may not be included in confirmation procedures.</para>
        </section>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_dual_purpose_tests" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Dual-Purpose Tests</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Dual-Purpose Tests</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi4_35" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.35</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.35</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Although the purpose of a test of controls
is different from the purpose of a test of details, it may be efficient
to perform both at the same time by, for example</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>performing a test of controls and test of details
on the same transaction (for example, testing whether a signed contract
has been maintained and whether the details of the financial instrument
have been appropriately captured in a summary sheet).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>testing controls when testing management’s process
of making valuation estimates.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_additional_considerations_about_alternative" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Additional Considerations About Alternative Investments</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Additional Considerations About Alternative
Investments</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi4_36" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.36</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.36</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Alternative investments represent investments
for which a readily determinable fair value does not exist. The FASB  (ASC) glossary
defines  as follows:
          <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">readily determinable fair value</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          The fair value of an equity security is readily determinable
if sales prices or bid-and-asked quotations are currently available
on a securities exchange registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) or in the over-the-counter market, provided that
those prices or quotations for the over-the-counter market are publicly
reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
Quotations systems or by OTC Markets Group Inc. Restricted stock meets
that definition if the restriction terminates within one year.
          <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          The fair value of an equity security traded only in a foreign
market is readily determinable if that foreign market is of a breadth
and scope comparable to one of the U.S. markets referred to previously.
          <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          The fair value of an equity security that is an investment
in a mutual fund or in a structure similar to a mutual fund (that
is, a limited partnership or a venture capital entity) is readily
determinable if the fair value per share (unit) is determined and
published and is the basis for current transactions.
          <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_37" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.37</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.37</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          These alternative investments include
investments that are not listed on national exchanges or OTC markets
or for which quoted market prices are not available from sources such
as financial publications, the exchanges, or NASDAQ. These investments,
as discussed in , “Applicability of Practical
Expedient,” include hedge funds, private equity funds, real estate
funds, venture capital funds, commodity funds, offshore fund vehicles,
and funds of funds. Alternative investments may be structured as limited
partnerships, limited liability corporations, trusts, or corporations.
          <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_2220_18">Technical
Questions and Answers section 2220.18</olink>
          <footnote id="aag-afi_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
            <para>
              All Q&amp;A sections can be found in .
              <emphasis role="italic">
                <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tpa">Technical Questions and Answers</olink>
              </emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_38" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.38</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.38</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">When alternative investments are required
to be accounted for at fair value, the valuation assertion may involve
significant judgment by management in the assessment of the estimate
of fair value of the investment. The more complex or illiquid the
investment or the lack of sufficient management processes and records
over valuation, the greater the risk of misstatement and the more
persuasive audit evidence needs to be obtained by the auditor.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_39" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.39</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.39</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s understanding of the reliability
of the process used by the investor entity’s management to determine
estimated fair value is an important element in support of the resulting
amounts and, therefore, affects the nature, timing, and extent of
audit procedures. The auditor may test management’s fair value estimate
as of the balance sheet date by using one or more of the following
approaches. The approach(es) taken may not be the same for all alternative
investments in an investor entity’s portfolio because the nature of
the underlying investments and associated risk, as well as the information
available to management and the auditor, likely will be different
for each alternative investment. The higher the assessed risk of material
misstatement, the greater the need for the auditor to utilize a combination
of the following approaches:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              . If the auditor determines that the nature and extent of auditing
procedures should include testing the measurement of the investor
entity’s investment, simply receiving a confirmation from the alternative
investment of the entity’s investments in financial instruments, either
in aggregate or on a security-by-security basis, does not, in and
of itself, constitute sufficient appropriate audit evidence in addressing
the valuation assertion. The extent of the additional audit procedures
is directly related to the assessed risk of material misstatement
of the financial statements.
              <emphasis role="italic">Confirm the alternative investment</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              . A confirmation on a security-by-security basis may provide support
of the data used by the investor’s management in its valuation process.
In drafting a confirmation, the auditor may consider requesting a
description of each investment, ownership percentage or shares owned,
and estimated fair value. If detailed information is not available,
the auditor may look to the other data that management used in its
valuation and perform tests on such data. The nature of the tests
depends on the types of data used by management and the auditor’s
assessment of the risk of material misstatement of the financial statements.
              <emphasis role="italic">Review and test the investor
entity’s significant assumptions and the underlying data in its valuation
or analysis of the assumptions and data obtained from the fund manager</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              . If audited financial statements
of the alternative investment are available as of the date of the
investor entity’s year-end, and the alternative investment follows
fair value accounting, the audited financial statements and an accompanying
auditor’s report may provide significant audit evidence regarding
the valuation of the investment. However, the investor entity and
fund often have different fiscal year-ends. In lower- or moderate-risk
situations, the auditor might be able to obtain the fund’s audited
financial statements as of the fund’s fiscal year-end and perform
(or arrange to have the fund’s auditor perform) additional procedures
to test the transactions and changes in fair value between the fund’s
fiscal year-end and the investor’s fiscal year-end.
              <emphasis role="italic">Reconcile to audited financial
statements as of the same date</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              . Evidence of an actual transaction,
such as an investment in, or liquidation of, a portion of its alternative
investment as of a date close to the investor entity’s fiscal year-end,
may provide information for management to support the valuation of
the alternative investment. The auditor may consider how often settlements
occur and the terms used to determine the value of the settlement.
Issues to consider include whether the process used for the settlement
is the same process used for financial reporting; whether there are
holdbacks or potential true-ups subsequent to the balance sheet date;
and the possibility that the parties to the transactions were not
both willing buyers and sellers, such as in a distress sale.
              <emphasis role="italic">Review transactions at or
near the balance sheet date</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_40" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.40</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.40</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">If management estimates the fair value
of a significant portion of its alternative investments as of an interim
date, management will need a robust process and strong internal control
over the roll-forward period to the balance sheet date. Because the
valuation assertion embedded in the financial statements is as of
the balance sheet date, management needs to have the ability to obtain
sufficient information to record the investments at estimated fair
value as of the balance sheet date, including changes in the estimated
fair value during the roll-forward period. In this situation, the
auditor may test both the estimation process as of the interim date
and the roll-forward process.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>