<root id="aag-afi_preface_about_aicpa_audit_guides" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>About AICPA Audit Guides</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">About AICPA Audit Guides</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">This AICPA Audit Guide has been developed
by the AICPA publications team to assist practitioners in performing
and reporting on their audit engagements.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    An AICPA guide containing auditing guidance
related to generally accepted auditing standards (GAAS) is recognized
as an interpretive publication, as defined in AU-C section 200B, . Interpretive publications are recommendations
on the application of GAAS in specific circumstances, including engagements
for entities in specialized industries.
    <footnote id="aag-afi_preface_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
      <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of SAS Nos. 134–140 or the amendments to other SASs
made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently issued SASs. </para>
      <para>
        All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
        <tab/>
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">
          <emphasis role="italic">Professional
Standards</emphasis>
        </olink>
      </para>
    </footnote>
    <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent
Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">Interpretive publications are issued under
the authority of the AICPA Auditing Standards Board (ASB) after all
ASB members have been provided an opportunity to consider and comment
on whether the proposed interpretive publication is consistent with
GAAS. The members of the ASB have found the auditing guidance in this
guide to be consistent with existing GAAS.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">Although interpretive publications are not
auditing standards, AU-C section 200B requires the auditor to consider
applicable interpretive publications in planning and performing the
audit because interpretive publications are relevant to the proper
application of GAAS in specific circumstances. If the auditor does
not apply the auditing guidance in an applicable interpretive publication,
the auditor should document how the requirements of GAAS were complied
with in the circumstances addressed by such auditing guidance.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    Throughout this guide, when appropriate,
reference is made to Technical Questions and Answers, which are considered
other auditing publications. AU-C section 200B indicates that in applying
the auditing guidance included in an other auditing publication, the
auditor should, exercising professional judgment, assess the relevance
and appropriateness of such guidance to the circumstances of the audit.
Other auditing publications have no authoritative status; however,
they may help the auditor understand and apply GAAS. The auditor is
not expected to be aware of the full body of other auditing publications.
Although the auditor determines the relevance of these publications
in accordance with paragraph .28 of AU-C section 200B, the auditor
may presume that other auditing publications published by the AICPA
that have been reviewed by the AICPA Audit and Attest Standards staff
are appropriate. These other auditing publications are listed in , .
    <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_appendix_f">AU-C appendix F</olink>
    <emphasis role="italic">Other Auditing Publications</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">The ASB is the designated senior committee
of the AICPA authorized to speak for the AICPA on all matters related
to auditing. Conforming changes made to the auditing guidance contained
in this guide are approved by the ASB chair (or his or her designee)
and the director of the AICPA Audit and Attest Standards staff. Updates
made to the auditing guidance in this guide exceeding that of conforming
changes are issued after all ASB members have been provided an opportunity
to consider and comment on whether the guide is consistent with existing
GAAS.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">AICPA Guides may include certain content
presented as “supplement”, “appendix”, or “exhibit.” A supplement
is a reproduction, in whole or in part, of authoritative guidance
originally issued by a standard-setting body (including regulatory
bodies) and applicable to entities or engagements within the purview
of that standard setter, independent of the authoritative status of
the applicable AICPA Guide. Both appendixes and exhibits are included
for informational purposes and have no authoritative status.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">Any auditing guidance in a guide appendix
or exhibit (whether chapter or back matter appendix or exhibit), though
not authoritative, is considered an “other auditing publication.”
In applying such guidance, the auditor should, exercising professional
judgment, assess the relevance and appropriateness of such guidance
to the circumstances of the audit. Although the auditor determines
the relevance of other auditing guidance, auditing guidance in a guide
appendix or exhibit has been reviewed by the AICPA Audit and Attest
Standards staff and the auditor may presume that it is appropriate.</para>
</root>