<root id="aag-afi_appB" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Appendix B — Illustrative Questions About the Entity’s
Controls Over Its Financial Instrument Activities (Ref: par. 3.16)</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Appendix B</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">
      Illustrative Questions About the
Entity’s Controls Over Its Financial Instrument Activities (Ref: )
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi3_16">par. 3.16</olink>
    </subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    <emphasis role="italic">This appendix is
nonauthoritative and is included for informational purposes only.</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">This appendix provides an illustration of
questions that may be helpful to the auditor in obtaining an understanding
of an entity’s controls over its financial instrument activities.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">
    <emphasis role="italic">Have those charged
with governance or the finance, asset or liability, investment, or
other committee established a clear and an internally consistent risk
management policy, including appropriate risk limits?</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">
    <emphasis role="italic">Are management’s
strategies and implementation policies consistent with those charged
with governance’s authorization?</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">Management’s philosophy and operating style
create an environment that influences the actions of treasury and
other personnel involved in derivatives and hedging activities. The
assignment of authority and responsibility for investment transactions
sends an important message:</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">
    <emphasis role="italic">Do key controls exist
to ensure that only authorized transactions take place and that unauthorized
transactions are quickly detected, and appropriate action is taken?</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">Are controls over investment transactions
monitored on an ongoing basis and subject to separate evaluations?
If so</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">
    <emphasis role="italic">Are the magnitude,
complexity, and risks of the entity’s financial instruments commensurate
with the entity’s objectives?</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">Internal analyses might include quantitative
and qualitative information about the entity’s investment transactions
and might address the risks associated with investment, such as</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">The entity’s risk assessment may result in
a determination about how to manage identified risks of investment
activities:</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">
    <emphasis role="italic">Are personnel with
authority to engage in and monitor financial instrument transactions
well-qualified and appropriately trained?</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">
    <emphasis role="italic">Does the entity have
personnel who have been cross-trained in case of the absence or departure
of key personnel involved with financial instrument transactions?</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">
    <emphasis role="italic">Do the right people
have the right information to make decisions?</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">The information might address both external
and internal events, activities, and conditions:</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">The entity’s analysis and internal reporting
might include how well the entity is achieving its strategy of using
financial instruments:</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">Those charged with governance or the finance,
asset or liability, investment, or other committee might consider
investment transactions in the context of how related risks affect
the achievement of the entity’s objectives (for example, economic,
regulatory, industry, or operating):</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_2">
    <emphasis role="italic">In assessing if the
right people have the right information, transactional questions exist
that may be asked and answered:</emphasis>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>Are the entity’s objectives and goals for financial
instruments clearly stated and communicated?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>To what extent are the entity’s operational objectives
for financial instruments being achieved?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Are financial instruments used to mitigate risk, or
do they create additional risk?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>If the risk is being assumed, are trading limits established?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Is the entity’s strategy for financial instruments’
use designed to further its economic, regulatory, industry, or operating
objectives?</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>Is that message clear?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Is compliance with these or related policies and procedures
evaluated regularly?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Does the treasury function view itself, or is it evaluated,
as a profit center? This might cause members of the treasury department
to attempt to enhance earnings through investment use.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>who is evaluating controls over investment transactions?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>do they possess the appropriate technical expertise?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>are deficiencies being identified and reported upstream?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>are duties involving initiation of investment transactions
segregated from other duties (for example, the accounting and internal
audit functions and the valuation of those financial instruments)?</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        , which
is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a
financial loss to another party by failing to discharge an obligation
and is often associated with default. Credit risk includes  and , which are defined as follows:
        <emphasis role="italic">credit risk</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">settlement risk</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">counterparty risk</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_6">
    <listitem>
      <para>Counterparty risk connotes the exposure to the aggregate
credit risk posed by all transactions with one counterparty.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         is the related exposure that a counterparty may fail to perform
under a contract after the end user has delivered funds or assets
according to its obligations. Settlement risk relates almost solely
to over-the-counter contracts (that is, nonexchange-traded instruments).
One method for minimizing settlement risk is to enter into a master
netting agreement that allows the parties to offset all their related
payable and receivable positions at settlement.
        <emphasis role="italic">Settlement risk</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        , which
is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial
instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Examples
of market risk include currency risk, interest rate risk, and commodity
and equity price risk.
        <emphasis role="italic">market risk</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        ,
which includes the risk of not being able to buy or sell a financial
instrument at an appropriate price in a timely manner due to a lack
of marketability for that financial instrument.
        <emphasis role="italic">liquidity risk</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>operational risk, which relates to the specific processing
required for financial instruments. Operational risk may increase
as the complexity of a financial instrument increases, and poor management
of operational risk may increase other types of risk. Operational
risk includes</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_6">
    <listitem>
      <para>the risk that confirmation and reconciliation controls
are inadequate, resulting in incomplete or inaccurate recording of
financial instruments.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the risk that there is inappropriate documentation
of transactions and insufficient monitoring of these transactions.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the risk that transactions are incorrectly recorded,
processed, or risk managed and, therefore, do not reflect the economics
of the overall trade.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the risk that undue reliance is placed by staff on
the accuracy of valuation techniques without adequate review, and
transactions are, therefore, incorrectly valued, or their risk is
improperly measured.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the risk that the use of financial instruments is
not adequately incorporated into the entity’s risk management policies
and procedures.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed
internal processes and systems or from external events, including
the risk of fraud from both internal and external sources.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the risk that there is inadequate or nontimely maintenance
of valuation techniques used to measure financial instruments.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>legal risk relating to losses resulting from a legal
or regulatory action that invalidates or otherwise precludes performance
by the end user or its counterparty under the terms of the contract
or related netting arrangements. For example, legal risk could arise
from insufficient or incorrect documentation for the contract, an
inability to enforce a netting arrangement in bankruptcy, adverse
changes in tax laws, or statutes that prohibit entities from investing
in certain types of financial instruments.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>What are the entity’s risk exposures, including financial
instruments?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Are the entity’s derivatives transactions standard
for their class (such as simple derivatives [for example, exchange-traded
futures contracts]), or are they complex (such as nonexchange-traded
derivatives based on relationships between diverse markets)?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Is the complexity of financial instruments inconsistent
with the risks being managed?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Has management anticipated how it will manage potential
investment risks before assuming them?</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>Who are the key financial instrument players within
the entity?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Is the knowledge vested only in one individual or
a small group?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Are other employees being appropriately educated before
they become involved with financial instrument transactions?</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>How can the entity ensure the integrity, ethical values,
and competence of personnel involved with financial instrument transactions?</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>What information about financial instrument transactions
is the entity identifying and capturing?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Is the entity capturing and communicating information
about market changes affecting the financial instruments?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Is the entity capturing and communicating changes
in its strategy for the mix of assets and liabilities that are the
focus of risk management activities involving financial instruments?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>How is this information being communicated, and is
this information being communicated to all affected parties?</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>Are the analysis and internal reporting of risks that
the entity is managing and the effectiveness of its strategies comprehensive,
reliable, and well-designed to facilitate oversight?</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>Do financial instrument transactions increase the
entity’s exposure to risks that might frustrate, rather than further,
achievement of the entity’s objectives?</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>Does the entity have good systems for marking transactions
to market?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Have these mark-to-market systems been tested by persons
independent of the financial instrument function?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Does the entity know how the value of its financial
instruments will change under extreme market conditions?</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Is the entity’s published financial information being
prepared reliably and in conformity with the applicable financial
reporting framework?</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>