<root id="aag-afi_appF_fasb_asu_no__201911" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2019-11, Codification Improvements to Topic
326, Financial Instruments — Credit Losses</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2019-11, Codification
Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments — Credit Losses</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">In November 2019, FASB issued ASU No. 2019-11
to clarify, correct errors in, or improve the codification.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2019-04 clarifies certain aspects
of the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13 as follows:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        . The amendments clarify that the allowance for credit
losses for PCD assets should include in the allowance for credit losses
expected recoveries of amounts previously written off and expected
to be written off by the entity and should not exceed the aggregate
of amounts of the amortized cost basis previously written off and
expected to be written off by an entity.
        <emphasis role="italic">Expected recoveries for PCD
assets</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>In addition,
the amendments clarify that when a method other than a discounted
cash flow method is used to estimate expected credit losses, expected
recoveries should not include any amounts that result in an acceleration
of the noncredit discount. An entity may include increases in expected
cash flows after acquisition.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments provide transition relief by permitting entities
an accounting policy election to adjust the effective interest rate
on existing TDRs using prepayment assumptions on the date of adoption
of FASB ASC 326 rather than the prepayment assumptions in effect immediately
before the restructuring.
        <emphasis role="italic">Transition relief for TDRs.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments extend the disclosure
relief for accrued interest receivable balances to additional relevant
disclosures involving amortized cost basis.
        <emphasis role="italic">Disclosures related to accrued
interest receivables.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments clarify
that an entity should assess whether it reasonably expects the borrower
will be able to continually replenish collateral securing the financial
asset to apply the practical expedient.
        <emphasis role="italic">Financial assets secured by
collateral maintenance provisions.</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>The amendments
clarify that an entity applying the practical expedient should estimate
expected credit losses for any difference between the amount of the
amortized cost basis that is greater than the fair value of the collateral
securing the financial asset (that is, the unsecured portion of the
amortized cost basis). An entity may determine that the expectation
of nonpayment for the amount of the amortized cost basis equal to
the fair value of the collateral securing the financial asset is zero.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendment to FASB ASC 805-20 clarifies
the guidance by removing the cross-reference to FASB ASC 310-30 in
FASB ASC 805-20-50-1 and replacing it with a cross-reference to the
guidance on PCD assets in FASB ASC 326-20.
        <emphasis role="italic">Conforming amendment to FASB
ASC 805-20.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>