<root id="aag-afi9_description_of_the_entity" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Description of the Entity</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Entity</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para>
      <emphasis role="bold">
        Update 9-1  Audit Evidence
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing:</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In July 2020, the AICPA issued , , which supersedes
AU-C section 500, , and amends the following AU-C sections:SAS No. 142 explains what constitutes audit evidence
in an audit of financial statements and sets out attributes of information
that are taken into account by the auditor when evaluating information
to be used as audit evidence.
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 142</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_315">Section 315</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment
and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_330">Section 330</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response
to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_530">Section 530</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Sampling</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">Section 540</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including
Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
      This SAS is effective for
audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after December
15, 2022. A link to the final SAS and other resources can be found
on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para>
      <emphasis role="bold">
        Update 9-2 : Auditing Accounting Estimates,
Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In July 2020, the AICPA issued , , which supersedes , , and amends
the following AU-C sections: SAS No. 143 addresses the auditor’s responsibilities
relating to accounting estimates, including fair value accounting
estimates and related disclosures, in an audit of financial statements. 
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">AU-C section 540</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing
Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value
Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_240">Section 240</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement
Audit</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_260">Section 260</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication With Those
Charged With Governance</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_580">Section 580</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial
Statements</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">Section 701</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Key Audit Matters in the
Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
      This SAS is effective for audits of financial statements for
periods ending on or after December 15, 2023. A link to the final
SAS and other resources can be found on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org.
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <section id="aag-afi9_13" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>9.13</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">9.13</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Although Martin has invested in financial
instruments in the past, it has not invested in a security with a
feature that constitutes an embedded derivative. However, Martin’s
board of directors exercises proper oversight and authorization of
all investing activities. In regard to the convertible bond investment,
the board took an active role in understanding the risks of the investment
and how it was priced and, ultimately, approving the transaction.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_14" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>9.14</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">9.14</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Martin also has other characteristics
of a strong control environment:</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">The bonds are held and serviced by a well-known
bank with an investment department that is widely respected. </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Management has high integrity and ethical values.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Management philosophy and operating style are commensurate
with the demands and needs of a well-regarded business organization.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Management carefully assigns authority and responsibility
to appropriate personnel.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Human resource policies and procedures are designed
in a way that the most qualified individuals are attracted to the
organization, hired, trained, rewarded, and retained.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>