<root id="aag-afi_information_that_applies_to" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Information That Applies to All the Scenarios</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Information That Applies to All the
Scenarios</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi8_description_of_the_entity" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Description of the Entity</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Entity</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_03" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.03</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.03</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The user entity is Lane Components, Inc.
(Lane) that manufactures electrical connectors and distributes them
nationally and internationally, primarily to manufacturers. Several
years ago, it sold a large division and used the proceeds to begin
building a portfolio of equity securities traded on an exchange regulated
by the SEC. Lane views the portfolio as a source of funds for future
business acquisitions and plant expansions.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_summary_of_the_accounting" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Summary of the Accounting Considerations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Summary of the Accounting Considerations</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_04" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.04</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.04</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Lane accounts for the securities under
FASB  (ASC) 321, , and, accordingly, reports the securities at their fair value, with
unrealized holding gains and losses included in earnings.
        <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Equity Securities</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi8_types_of_potential_misstatements" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Types of Potential Misstatements of the Entity’s Assertions
About Its Financial Instruments and Financial Instrument Transactions</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Types of Potential Misstatements of the
Entity’s Assertions About Its Financial Instruments and Financial
Instrument Transactions</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_05" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.05</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.05</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor identifies the following seven
types of potential misstatements of Lane’s assertions about its financial
instrument transactions:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        The recorded financial instruments do not exist, and the recorded
financial instrument transactions did not occur.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          a.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Lane does not have the rights and obligations associated with ownership
of the recorded financial instruments.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          b.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        The entity’s financial instruments and financial instrument transactions
were not recorded.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          c.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        The fair value of the recorded financial instruments was determined
incorrectly.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          d.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Realized and unrealized holding gains and losses are not properly
reported as earnings.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          e.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Disclosures about financial instruments and financial instrument
transactions are not adequate.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          f.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_inherent_risk_factors_the" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Inherent Risk Factors the Auditor Considers in Planning
the Audit</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Inherent Risk Factors the Auditor Considers
in Planning the Audit</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_06" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.06</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.06</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The financial instruments are traded on
an exchange regulated by the SEC, and the features of the instruments,
underlying transactions, and accounting considerations are relatively
straightforward. The auditor assesses inherent risk for all assertions
about financial instruments and financial instrument transactions
as low.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_timing_of_substantive_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Timing of Substantive Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Timing of Substantive Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_07" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.07</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.07</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor decides to perform substantive
procedures for assertions about financial instruments at year-end
because of the relatively small number of financial instruments and
financial instrument transactions.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_materiality_considerations" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Materiality Considerations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Materiality Considerations</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_08" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.08</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.08</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The carrying amount of the financial instruments
and the realized and unrealized gains and losses on them are material
to Lane’s financial statements, but dividends on the financial instruments
are not material to the financial statements.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi8_09" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.09</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.09</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
         present three scenarios, including the following
information relevant to the particular scenario:
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_10">Paragraphs
8.10–.24</olink>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>The understanding of controls the auditor needs to
plan the audit</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The auditor’s assessment of control risk</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The auditor’s design of procedures, including, when
applicable, the auditor’s considerations in identifying controls that
reduce control risk and the procedures the auditor uses to gather
audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of those controls</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>