<root id="aag-afi1_models" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Models</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Models</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi1_38" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.38</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.38</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Models may be used to value financial
instruments when the price cannot be directly observed in the market.
Models can be as simple as a commonly used bond pricing formula or
involve complex, specifically developed software tools to value financial
instruments with level 3 inputs. Many models are based on discounted
cash flow calculations. </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_39" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.39</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.39</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Examples of models that are often used
are Black-Scholes, which is frequently used for option pricing, and
the zero-coupon method, which is often used for estimating the fair
value of interest rate swaps. , "Information About the Black-Scholes Valuation Model,"
and , "Information
About the Zero-Coupon Valuation Model," of this guide provide more
information about the Black-Scholes and zero-coupon method.
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appD">Appendix
D</olink>
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appE">appendix E</olink>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_40" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.40</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.40</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Models comprise a methodology, assumptions,
and data. The methodology describes rules or principles governing
the relationship between the variables in the valuation. Assumptions
include estimates of uncertain variables that are used in the model.
Data may comprise actual or hypothetical information about the financial
instrument or other inputs to the financial instrument.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_41" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.41</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.41</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Depending on the circumstances, matters
that the entity may address when establishing or validating a model
for a financial instrument include whether</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>the model is validated prior to usage, with periodic
reviews to ensure that it is still suitable for its intended use.
The entity’s validation process may include evaluation of the</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
      <listitem>
        <para>methodology’s theoretical soundness and mathematical
integrity, including the appropriateness of parameters and sensitivities.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>consistency and completeness of the model’s inputs
with market practices and whether the appropriate inputs are available
for use in the model.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>appropriate change control policies, procedures, and
security controls over the model exist.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the model is appropriately changed or adjusted on
a timely basis for changes in market conditions.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the model is periodically calibrated, reviewed, and
tested for validity by a separate and objective function. Doing so
is a means of ensuring that the model’s output is a fair representation
of the value that marketplace participants would ascribe to a financial
instrument.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the model maximizes the use of relevant observable
inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>adjustments are made to the output of the model to
reflect the assumptions that marketplace participants would use in
similar circumstances.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the model is adequately documented, including the
model’s intended applications and limitations and its key parameters,
required data, results of any validation analysis performed, and any
adjustments made to the output of the model.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>