<root id="aag-afi6_modifications_to_the_auditors" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Modifications to the Auditor’s Report</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Modifications to the Auditor’s Report</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi6_18" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.18</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.18</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">AU-C section 705B addresses how the form
and content of the auditor’s report are affected when the auditor
expresses a modified opinion (a qualified opinion, an adverse opinion,
or a disclaimer of opinion).</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_scope_limitations" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Scope Limitations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Scope Limitations</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi6_19" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.19</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.19</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s objective is to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence to provide a reasonable basis for forming
an opinion. There are often significant challenges to management obtaining
sufficient information to support its assertions relevant to financial
instruments, and auditors will face similar challenges in obtaining
audit evidence and evaluating its sufficiency. The amounts and types
of audit evidence necessary to support an opinion are matters for
the auditor to determine in the exercise of his or her professional
judgment after careful study of the particular circumstances. In evaluating
audit evidence, the auditor may consider whether the specific audit
objectives have been met. The consideration might include such factors
as</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>the significance of the financial instruments for
which neither the underlying detail nor audited financial statements
were available as of the balance sheet date.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the adequacy of management’s process and related internal
control.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>timeliness of the estimated fair value of the underlying
financial instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_20" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.20</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.20</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s justification for the expression
of his or her opinion rests on the conformity of the audit with generally
accepted auditing standards (GAAS). When a significant amount of financial
instruments are stated at estimated fair value, the auditor may consider
both the uncertainties inherent in the financial instrument valuations
and the extent of audit evidence supporting those valuations. The
assessment of reasonableness of valuations considers their effects
on the financial statements as a whole, not solely the investment
caption in the financial statements. If the auditor is unable to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support the financial statement
assertions, it will be necessary to modify an opinion on the financial
statements due to a scope limitation. </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_21" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.21</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.21</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Scope limitations related to sufficiency
of evidence are different from situations in which the auditor concludes
that the financial statements are materially misstated due to departures
from the applicable financial reporting framework related to inadequate
disclosure of uncertainties inherent in the financial instrument valuations,
failure to apply a valuation method required by the applicable financial
reporting framework, or valuations that are not supported or reasonable.
If the potential effect of the applicable financial reporting framework
departure is material to the investor entity’s financial statements
as a whole, the auditor is required to issue a qualified opinion or
an adverse opinion, as described in paragraph .09 of AU-C section
705B.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_departures_from_the_applicable" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Departures From the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Departures From the Applicable Financial
Reporting Framework</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi6_22" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.22</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.22</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        After performing the audit procedures,
including evaluating the findings of the valuation specialist, the
auditor may conclude that management’s assertions in the financial
statements about the identification or estimate of fair value are
not presented or measured in accordance with applicable the financial
reporting framework. This situation could arise from unresolved differences
of opinion over the appropriateness of the valuation method or the
reasonableness of the significant valuation assumptions. When financial
statements are materially affected by a departure from the applicable
financial reporting framework, and the auditor has performed an audit
in accordance with GAAS, the auditor should issue a qualified or an
adverse opinion on the financial statements.
        <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn13" label="fn 13" role="number">
          <para>
            Paragraphs .08–.10 of AU-C section 705B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>