<root id="aag-afi5_financial_reporting_requirements" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Financial Reporting Requirements</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Financial Reporting Requirements</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi5_update_5-1">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
5-1 : Auditor Reporting
and Amendments, Including Amendments Addressing Disclosures in the
Audit of Financial Statements
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In May 2019,
the AICPA issued Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 134, . This suite of auditor reporting standards includes a new (although
not required) , , and replaces the following AU-C sections in AICPA :
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditor Reporting and Amendments, Including Amendments
Addressing Disclosures in the Audit of Financial Statements</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Key Audit Matters
in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Professional Standards</emphasis>
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">AU-C section
701</olink>
      <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
        <para>
          All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
          <emphasis role="italic">
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial
Statements</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_705">Section 705</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent
Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_706">Section 706</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Emphasis-of-Matter Paragraphs and Other-Matter
Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>SAS No. 134, which also amends various
other AU-C sections, addresses the auditor’s responsibility to form
an opinion on the financial statements and the form and content of
the auditor’s report issued as a result of an audit of financial statements.
It also addresses the auditor’s responsibilities, and the form and
content of the auditor’s report, when the auditor concludes that a
modification to the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements
is necessary, and when additional communications are necessary in
the auditor’s report.</para>
    <para>
      At the time SAS No. 134 was originally
issued, the amendments were intended to become effective for audits
of financial statements for periods ending on or after December 15,
2020 and early implementation was not permitted; however, in May 2020,
the AICPA issued SAS No. 141, .
      <emphasis role="italic">Amendment to
the Effective Dates of SAS Nos. 134–140</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>SAS
No. 141 delays the effective dates of SAS Nos. 134–140, and the amendments
to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140, from December 15, 2020 to
December 15, 2021, in order to provide more time for firms to implement
these SASs in light of the effect of the coronavirus pandemic. SAS
Nos. 134, 136–137, and 139–140, as originally issued, do not permit
early implementation; however, SAS No. 141 amends these SASs to no
longer preclude early implementation. </para>
    <para>SAS Nos. 134 and
136–140 are interrelated because the Auditing Standards Board (ASB)
amended the auditor reporting model adopted in SAS No. 134 with the
issuance of the subsequent SASs. The effective dates were aligned
so that these SASs would be implemented as a suite, primarily to accommodate
the amendments to the auditor reporting model. Accordingly, the ASB
recommends that all of these SASs be implemented concurrently. SAS
No. 141 was effective upon issuance.</para>
  </paraBlock>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi5_update_5-2">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
5-2 : Audit Evidence
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In July 2020, the AICPA issued ,  (AU-C sec. 500), which supersedes AU-C section
500A, , and amends
the following AU-C sections: 
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">SAS No. 142</olink>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit
Evidence</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_315">Section 315</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment
and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_330">Section 330</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response
to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_530">Section 530</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Sampling</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">Section
540A</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates,
Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
       explains what constitutes audit evidence in an
audit of financial statements and sets out attributes of information
that are taken into account by the auditor when evaluating information
to be used as audit evidence.
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">SAS No. 142</olink>
    </para>
    <para>
      This SAS is effective for
audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after December
15, 2022. A link to the final SAS and other resources can be found
on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
      <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
    </para>
  </paraBlock>
  <section id="aag-afi5_01" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.01</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.01</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Fair presentation financial reporting
frameworks often use fair value hierarchies (for example, those used
in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America and International Financial Reporting Standards). This usually
means that the volume and detail of the required disclosures increases
as the level of measurement uncertainty increases. The distinction
between the levels in the hierarchy may require judgment. 
      <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
        <para>
           of this
guide describes the classification of the different levels (Level
1, Level 2, and Level 3 inputs).
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi1_26">Paragraph 1.26</olink>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_02" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.02</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.02</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor may find it useful to obtain
an understanding of how the financial instruments relate to the fair
value hierarchy. Ordinarily, the risk of material misstatement and
the level of audit procedures to be applied increases as the level
of measurement uncertainty increases. The use of Level 3 and some
Level 2 inputs from the fair value hierarchy may be a useful guide
to the level of measurement uncertainty. Level 2 inputs vary from
those that are easily obtained to those that are closer to Level 3
inputs. The auditor evaluates available evidence and understands both
the fair value hierarchy and the risk of management bias in management’s
categorization of financial instruments in the fair value hierarchy.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_03" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>5.03</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">5.03</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      In accordance with paragraph .08 of AU-C section 540B, , the auditor is required to obtain
an understanding of how management makes the accounting estimates
and the data on which they are based, which includes the entity’s
valuation policies and methodology for data and assumptions used in
the valuation methodology. In many cases, the applicable financial reporting framework
does not prescribe the specific valuation methodology. When this is
the case, matters that may be relevant to the auditor’s understanding
of how management values financial instruments include, for example
      <emphasis role="italic">c</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
        <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>whether management has a formal valuation policy and,
if so, whether the valuation technique used for a financial instrument
is appropriately documented in accordance with that policy.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>which models may give rise to the greatest risk of
material misstatement.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>how management considered the complexity of the valuation
of the financial instrument when selecting a particular valuation
technique.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>whether there is a greater risk of material misstatement
because management has internally developed a model to be used to
value financial instruments or is departing from a valuation technique
commonly used to value the particular financial instrument.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>whether management made use of a third-party pricing
source.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>whether those involved in developing and applying
the valuation technique have the appropriate skills and expertise
to do so, including whether management’s specialist has been used.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>whether there are indicators of management bias in
selecting the valuation technique to be used.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>