<root id="aag-afi3_08" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>3.08</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">3.08</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraph .A79 of AU-C section 315B addresses
elements of the control environment that may be relevant when obtaining
an understanding of the control environment and identifies the following
attributes of those charged with governance:</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    their independence from management.
    <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    their experience and stature.
    <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    the extent of their involvement and the information they receive
and the scrutiny of activities.
    <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    the appropriateness of their actions, including the degree
to which difficult questions are raised and pursued with management.
    <emphasis role="italic">d.</emphasis>
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
    their interaction with internal and external auditors.
    <emphasis role="italic">e.</emphasis>
    <tab/>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">Those charged with governance oversee and
concur with management’s establishment of the entity’s overall risk
appetite and provide oversight over the entity’s financial instrument
activities. An entity’s policies for the purchase, sale, and holding
of financial instruments are aligned with its attitude toward risk
and the expertise of those involved in financial instrument activities.
In addition, an entity may establish governance structures and control
processes aimed at</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>communicating investment decisions and assessments
of all material measurement uncertainty to those charged with governance,
as well as </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>evaluating the entity’s overall risk appetite when
engaging in financial instrument transactions.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>