<root id="aag-afi10_accounting_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Accounting Considerations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">
      Accounting Considerations
      <footnote id="aag-afi10_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
        <para>For simplicity, this case study ignores income tax consequences.</para>
      </footnote>
    </title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi10_description_of_the_transaction" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Description of the Transaction</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Transaction</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi10_06" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.06</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.06</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">JLM manufactures windows and doors for
residential sale and is a SEC registrant that operates under a fiscal
year-end of December 31. JLM has experienced a tremendous growth rate
during the past 2 years. As a result, it has entered into an expansion
and equipment upgrade project at its plant. In order to keep up with
demands, JLM has increased its workforce by 25%.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_07" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.07</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.07</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">On January 1, 20X1, JLM issued a 5-year,
$1 million, BB-rated bond obligation. The interest rate on the bond
obligation was fixed at 8%, payable on a quarterly basis. On February
1, 20X1, to hedge its exposure to changes in LIBOR (that is, the designated
benchmark interest rate risk being hedged), JLM entered into a 5-year
interest rate swap with a notional amount of $1 million to receive
a fixed rate of 8% and pay a variable rate equal to 90-day LIBOR (at
the end of each quarter) plus 2%, payable on a quarterly basis, with
the first payment due March 31, 20X1.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_accounting_for_the_transaction" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Accounting for the Transaction</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">
        Accounting for the Transaction
        <footnote id="aag-afi10_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
          <para>
            <emphasis role="shade">
              In August 2017, FASB issued Accounting
Standards Update (ASU) No. 2017-12, , to simplify the application of hedge accounting
by aligning it with an entity’s risk management activities in their
financial statements. For public business entities, the guidance was
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including
interim periods within those fiscal years. For entities other than
public business entities, ASU No. 2017-12 is effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2020, and interim periods within
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021; these effective dates
reflect amendments from ASU No. 2019-10, , which delayed
the effective dates of several major updates in response to feedback
FASB received from stakeholders. Early application is permitted in
any interim period after the date this ASU was issued.
              <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives
and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging
Activities</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Financial
Instruments — Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic
815), and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates</emphasis>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi10_08" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.08</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.08</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In order to meet the criteria for hedge
accounting, the hedge must be highly effective. When certain conditions
are met, the entity may assume that an interest rate swap will be
completely effective in hedging benchmark interest rate risk. In that
situation, the entity may elect to use the shortcut method discussed
in paragraphs 102–117 of FASB ASC 815-20-25, thereby avoiding the
need to formally assess hedging effectiveness at inception and on
a continuing basis. In this case study, one of those conditions is
not met because the interest rate swap matures one month later than
the bond obligation.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_09" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.09</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.09</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Because the expiration date of the interest
rate swap is different than the maturity date of the debt obligation,
fluctuations in the benchmark interest rate may have varying effects
on the fair values of the bond obligation and interest rate swap.
Accordingly, JLM may not assume that the changes in fair value of
the interest rate swap are, and will continue to be, completely effective
at offsetting the changes in fair value of the bond obligation attributable
to changes in the benchmark interest rate.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_10" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.10</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.10</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">JLM assessed hedge effectiveness by comparing
the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap with the portion
of the change in the fair value of the bond obligation attributable
to changes in the benchmark interest rate. The change in the bond
obligation’s fair value attributable to changes in the benchmark interest
rate for a specific period is determined as the difference between
two present value calculations as of the end of the period that exclude
or include, respectively, the effect of the changes in the benchmark
interest rate during the period. The discount rates used for those
present value calculations would be, respectively, the discount rate
equal to the coupon rate for the bond obligation (assuming no changes
in JLM’s creditworthiness) at the inception of the hedge adjusted
(up or down) for changes in the</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        benchmark rate (designated as the interest rate risk being hedged)
from the inception of the hedge to the beginning date of the period
for which the change in fair value is being calculated.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          a.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        designated benchmark rate from the inception of the hedge to the
ending date of the period for which the change in fair value is being
calculated.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          b.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">
        <emphasis role="shade">Consistent with “Pending
Content” in FASB ASC 815-25-55-55, JLM assessed hedge effectiveness
by comparing the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap
with the portion of the change in the fair value of the bond obligation
attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. The change
in the bond obligation’s fair value attributable to changes in the
benchmark interest rate for a specific period is determined as the
difference between two present value calculations that use the remaining
cash flows as of the end of the period and reflect in the discount
rate the effect of the changes in the benchmark interest rate during
the period.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_11" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.11</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.11</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Both present value calculations are computed
using the estimated future cash flows for the hedged item (which typically
would be its remaining contractual cash flows). Hedge ineffectiveness
will occur if changes in the fair value of the obligation under the
bond attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate do not
equal changes in the fair value of the swap. </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">
        <emphasis role="shade">Consistent with “Pending
Content” in FASB ASC 815-25-55-56, both present value calculations
are computed using the estimated future cash flows for the hedged
item, which would be either its remaining contractual coupon cash
flows or the LIBOR benchmark rate component of the remaining contractual
coupon cash flows determined at hedge inception. Hedge ineffectiveness
will occur if changes in the fair value of the obligation under the
bond attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate do not
equal changes in the fair value of the swap.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_12" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.12</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.12</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Additional facts that impact the accounting
for this transaction include the following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            The basis adjustments recognized in earnings related
to the bond obligation should be equal to the changes in the fair
value of the bond obligation attributable to changes in the benchmark
interest rate.
            <footnote id="aag-afi10_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
              <para>
                In calculating the change in the hedged item’s fair value attributable
to changes in the benchmark interest rate, FASB  (ASC) 815-25-35-13 requires that
the estimated cash flows used in calculating fair value be based on
all the contractual cash flows of the entire hedged item.
                <emphasis>Accounting
Standards Codification</emphasis>
              </para>
              <para>
                <emphasis role="shade">Consistent with “Pending Content” in
FASB ASC 815-25-35-13, in calculating the change in the hedged item’s
fair value attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate,
the estimated coupon cash flows used in calculating fair value should
be based on either the full contractual coupon cash flows or the benchmark
rate component of the contractual coupon cash flows of the hedged
item determined at hedge inception. FASB ASC 815-25-35-13B addresses
partial-term hedges of interest rate risk. </emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The interest rate swap was issued at the market rate
on February 1, 20X1; therefore, no cash was exchanged at inception
of the contract, and no entries related to the time value of money
were required.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>All the hedge accounting criteria contained in FASB
ASC 815-20-25 were met. Hedge effectiveness was achieved at the inception
of the contract.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The bond’s 8% stated interest rate is the market rate
on January 1, 20X1, when the bond was issued. The benchmark interest
rate on February 1, 20X1, was 5%. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>During 20X1, the fair values of the interest rate
swap and JLM’s bond obligation (after cash settlements), excluding
current period swap accruals and interest accruals, were as follows:</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>LIBOR plus 2% equaled 8.25% and 8.50% at March 31
and June 30, 20X1, respectively.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <table frame="none" id="aag-afi10_table1" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1.87in"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="0.87in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="0.75in"/>
          <colspec colname="c4" colwidth="0.75in"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">February 1</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">March 31</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">June 30</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>Interest rate swap</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> $ —</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$(20,000)</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$(35,000) </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>JLM bond obligation</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 1,005,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 980,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> 965,000</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>Change in fair value of interest rate swap</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> $ —</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>(20,000)</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>(15,000)</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>Change in fair value of JLM bond obligation</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para> $ —</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>25,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>15,000</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_journal_entries" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Journal Entries</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Journal Entries</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi10_13" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.13</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.13</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The journal entries JLM made are as follows:</para>
      <table frame="none" id="aag-afi10_table2" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="4.36in"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="0.87in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="0.89in"/>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c3" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="bold">February 1, 20X1</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c3" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>JLM made a memorandum entry documenting the existence of the
hedging relationship. The financial records of JLM were not otherwise
affected as of this date because the interest rate swap was issued
at the market rate; therefore, no cash changed hands.</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" nameend="c3" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="bold">March 31, 20X1</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>Interest expense</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$20,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  Cash
                  <tab/>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$20,000</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>To record interest expense on the bond obligation — ($1,000,000
× 8.00%) × 3/12 = $20,000.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>Interest expense</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$417</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  Cash
                  <tab/>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$417</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>To record the net cash payment on the interest rate swap as
an increase in interest expense — [($1,000,000 × 8%) × 2/12 = $13,333
received] less [($1,000,000 × 8.25%) × 2/12 = $13,750 paid]. </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>Unrealized loss on interest rate swap</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$20,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  Obligation under interest rate swap
                  <tab/>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$20,000</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>To record the reduction in the fair value of the interest rate
swap as a liability, with an offsetting charge to earnings. </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>Bond obligation</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$25,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  Unrealized gain on bond obligation
                  <tab/>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$25,000</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>To record the reduction in the fair value of the bond obligation
due to a change in the benchmark interest rate, with an offsetting
credit to earnings.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" nameend="c3" namest="c1" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="bold">June 30, 20X1</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>Interest expense</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$20,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  Cash
                  <tab/>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$20,000</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>To record interest expense on the bond obligation — ($1,000,000
× 8.00%) × 3/12 = $20,000.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>Interest expense</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$1,250</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  Cash
                  <tab/>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$1,250</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>To record the net cash payment on the interest rate swap as
an increase in interest expense — [($1,000,000 × 8%) × 3/12 = $20,000
received] less [($1,000,000 × 8.5%) × 3/12 = $21,250 paid].</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>Unrealized loss on interest rate swap</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$15,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  Obligation under interest rate swap
                  <tab/>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$15,000</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>To record the increase in the fair value of the liability under
the swap agreement, with an offsetting charge to earnings.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>Bond obligation</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$15,000</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para/>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  Unrealized gain on bond obligation
                  <tab/>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>$15,000</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom">
                <para>To record the reduction in the fair value of the bond obligation
due to a change in the benchmark interest rate, with an offsetting
credit to earnings.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
              <entry align="right" colsep="0" rowsep="0" valign="bottom"/>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi10_observations" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Observations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Observations</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi10_14" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.14</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.14</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">JLM’s fixed-rate bond obligation together
with the interest rate swap it entered into is economically equal
to a variable-rate obligation as a result of entering into the interest
rate swap. For example, interest expense for the quarter ended June
30, 20X1, was $21,250, consisting of $20,000 paid under the bond plus
$1,250 paid under the swap. This equals interest on the bond at the
variable rate of 8.5% ($1,000,000 × 8.5% × 3/12 = $21,250). Due to
the fact that the benchmark interest rate increased during the first
5 months of the hedging relationship, the fair value of the interest
rate swap decreased, resulting in JLM making net interest cash payments
on the settlement dates. </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_15" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.15</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.15</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The fair value of the bond obligation
decreased as a result of the increase in the benchmark interest rate.
The decrease in the fair value of the bond created unrealized gain
that was partially offset by the unrealized loss from the decrease
in the fair value of the swap (which resulted in recognizing a liability).
The fair value change in the bond obligation was compared with the
change in the fair value of the interest rate swap to determine hedge
effectiveness (that is, within 80% to 125% of each other). Once determined,
the change in the fair value of the bond obligation attributable to
changes in the benchmark interest rate was recognized in earnings
as an offset to the change in fair value of the interest rate swap.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi10_16" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>10.16</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">10.16</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The results were that at March 31 and
June 30, the changes in fair value of the interest rate swap were
highly effective in offsetting the changes in fair value of the bond
obligation attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate.
Furthermore, the hedge ineffectiveness (that is, $5,000 at March 31)
was recognized currently in earnings. </para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>