<root id="aag-afi9_05" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>9.05</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">9.05</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">
    Paragraphs 4–5 of FASB ASC 815-15-25 permit
fair value remeasurement of any hybrid financial instrument that contains
an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation. An
entity that initially recognizes a hybrid financial instrument that
under FASB ASC 815-15-25-1 would be required to be separated into
a host contract and derivative instrument may irrevocably elect to
initially and subsequently measure that hybrid financial instrument
in its entirety at fair value (with changes in fair value recognized
in earnings and, if paragraph 825-10-45-5 is applicable, other comprehensive
income). A financial instrument should be evaluated to determine that
it has an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation before the instrument
can become a candidate for the fair value election. The fair value
election should be supported by concurrent documentation or a preexisting
documented policy for automatic election. That recognized hybrid financial
instrument could be an asset or a liability, and it could be acquired
or issued by the entity. That election is also available when a previously
recognized financial instrument is subject to a remeasurement event
(new basis event) and the separate recognition of an embedded derivative.
For purposes of FASB ASC 815-15-25-5, a  is an event identified in accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America, other
than the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment, or measurement
of an impairment loss through earnings under FASB ASC 321, , on equity
investments, that requires a financial instrument to be remeasured
to its fair value at the time of the event but does not require that
instrument to be reported at fair value on a continuous basis with
the change in fair value recognized in earnings. Examples of remeasurement
events are  and , as defined in FASB ASC 470-50. Per FASB ASC 815-15-25-6, the fair
value election should not be applied to any hybrid instruments listed
in FASB ASC 825-10-50-8.
    <emphasis role="italic">remeasurement
(new basis event)</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">Investments — Equity Securities</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">business combinations</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">significant modifications of debt</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_para_number">
    <emphasis role="shade">
      Paragraphs 4–5
of FASB ASC 815-15-25 permit fair value remeasurement of any hybrid
financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise
would require bifurcation. An entity that initially recognizes a hybrid
financial instrument that under FASB ASC 815-15-25-1 would be required
to be separated into a host contract and derivative instrument may
irrevocably elect to initially and subsequently measure that hybrid
financial instrument in its entirety at fair value (with changes in
fair value recognized in earnings and, if paragraph 825-10-45-5 is
applicable, other comprehensive income). A financial instrument should
be evaluated to determine that it has an embedded derivative requiring
bifurcation before the instrument can become a candidate for the fair
value election. The fair value election should be supported by concurrent
documentation or a preexisting documented policy for automatic election.
That recognized hybrid financial instrument could be an asset or a
liability, and it could be acquired or issued by the entity. That
election is also available when a previously recognized financial
instrument is subject to a remeasurement event (new basis event) and
the separate recognition of an embedded derivative. For purposes of
FASB ASC 815-15-25-5, a  is an event identified in accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America, other than the
recording of a credit loss under FASB ASC 326, , or measurement
of an impairment loss through earnings under FASB ASC 321 on equity
investments, that requires a financial instrument to be remeasured
to its fair value at the time of the event but does not require that
instrument to be reported at fair value on a continuous basis with
the change in fair value recognized in earnings. Examples of remeasurement
events are  and , as defined in FASB ASC 470-50. Per FASB ASC 815-15-25-6, the fair
value election should not be applied to any hybrid instruments listed
in FASB ASC 825-10-50-8.
      <emphasis role="italic">remeasurement (new
basis event)</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments — Credit Losses</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">business combinations</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">significant modifications of debt</emphasis>
    </emphasis>
  </para>
</root>