<root id="aag-afi2_01" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>2.01</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">2.01</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">Certain factors may make auditing financial
instruments particularly challenging. For example</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">These factors may cause risks and relevant
facts to be obscured, which may affect the auditor’s assessment of
the risks of material misstatement, and unidentified risks can emerge
rapidly, especially in adverse market conditions.</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>it may be difficult for the auditor to understand
the nature of financial instruments and what they are used for and
the risks to which the entity is exposed.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>market sentiment and liquidity can change quickly,
placing pressure on management to manage its exposures effectively.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>evidence supporting valuation may be difficult to
obtain.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>individual payments associated with certain financial
instruments may be significant, which may increase the risk of misappropriation
of assets.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>the amounts recorded in the financial statements relating
to financial instruments may not be significant, but significant risks
and exposures associated with these financial instruments may exist.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>a few employees may exert significant influence on
the entity’s financial instrument transactions, in particular when
their compensation arrangements are tied to revenue or profit from
financial instruments, and possible undue reliance on these individuals
by others within the entity may exist.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>