<root id="aag-afi6_assertions_about_financial_instruments" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Assertions About Financial Instruments Based on Management’s
Intent and Ability</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Assertions About Financial Instruments
Based on Management’s Intent and Ability</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi6_07" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.07</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.07</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Financial reporting frameworks may require
that management’s intent and ability be considered in valuing certain
financial instruments, as follows:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Whether debt securities are classified as held to
maturity and reported at their cost depends on management’s intent
and ability to hold them to their maturity, as well as management’s
assessment of whether it is more likely than not that they will be
required to sell the security before the recovery of its amortized
cost basis.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Whether equity securities are reported using the equity
method depends on management’s ability to significantly influence
the investee.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Whether equity securities are classified as trading
or available for sale depends on management’s intent and objectives
in investing in the financial instruments.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_08" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.08</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.08</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In evaluating management’s intent and
ability, the auditor might</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>obtain an understanding of the process used by management
to classify financial instruments as trading, available for sale,
or held to maturity.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>for an investment accounted for using the equity method,
inquire of management regarding whether the entity has the ability
to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial
policies of the investee and evaluate the attendant circumstances
that serve as a basis for management’s conclusions.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>if the entity accounts for the investment contrary
to the presumption established by the applicable financial reporting
framework for use of the equity method, obtain sufficient appropriate
audit evidence about whether that presumption has been overcome and
whether appropriate disclosure is made regarding the reasons for not
accounting for the investment in keeping with that presumption.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>consider whether management’s activities corroborate
or conflict with its stated intent. For example, the auditor might
evaluate an assertion that management intends to hold debt securities
to their maturity by examining evidence such as documentation of management’s
strategies and sales and other historical activities with respect
to those financial instruments and similar financial instruments.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          determine whether the applicable financial reporting
framework requires management to document its intentions and specify
the content and timeliness of that documentation. The auditor might inspect the documentation and obtain
audit evidence about its timeliness. Unlike the formal documentation
required for hedging activities, audit evidence supporting the classification
of debt and equity securities may be more informal.
          <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
            <para>
              Paragraphs 1–2 of FASB  (ASC) 320-10-25 require an investor to classify
and document the classification of debt securities into one of three
categories at their acquisition: held to maturity, available for sale,
or trading.
              <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards
Codification</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
          <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
            <para>
              FASB ASC 825-10-05-5 permits entities to choose to measure many
financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are
not currently required to be measured at fair value. FASB ASC 825-10-50
also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed
to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement
attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. FASB ASC 825-10-50
does not eliminate disclosure requirements included in other accounting
standards, including requirements for disclosures about fair value
measurements included in FASB ASC 820, .
              <emphasis role="italic">Fair
Value Measurement</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>determine whether management’s activities, contractual
agreements, or the entity’s financial condition provide evidence of
its ability, as follows:</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
      <listitem>
        <para>The entity’s financial position, working capital needs,
operating results, debt agreements, guarantees, alternate sources
of liquidity, and other relevant contractual obligations, as well
as laws and regulations, may provide evidence about an entity’s ability
to hold debt financial instruments to their maturity.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Management’s cash flow projections may suggest that
it does not have the ability to hold debt financial instruments to
their maturity.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Management’s inability to obtain information from
an investee may suggest that it does not have the ability to significantly
influence the investee.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>If the entity asserts that it maintains effective
control over financial instruments transferred under a repurchase
agreement, the contractual agreement may be such that the entity actually
surrendered control over the financial instruments and, therefore,
should account for the transfer as a sale instead of a secured borrowing.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>