<root id="aag-afi5" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Chapter 5 — Valuation of Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Chapter 5</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">Valuation of Financial Instruments</subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <section id="aag-afi5_financial_reporting_requirements" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Financial Reporting Requirements</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Financial Reporting Requirements</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <paraBlock role="ps_box">
      <para id="aag-afi5_update_5-1">
        <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
        <emphasis role="bold">
           Update
5-1 : Auditor Reporting
and Amendments, Including Amendments Addressing Disclosures in the
Audit of Financial Statements
          <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>
        In May 2019,
the AICPA issued Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 134, . This suite of auditor reporting standards includes a new (although
not required) , , and replaces the following AU-C sections in AICPA :
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditor Reporting and Amendments, Including Amendments
Addressing Disclosures in the Audit of Financial Statements</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Key Audit Matters
in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Professional Standards</emphasis>
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">AU-C section
701</olink>
        <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
          <para>
            All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
            <emphasis role="italic">
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial
Statements</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_705">Section 705</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent
Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_706">Section 706</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Emphasis-of-Matter Paragraphs and Other-Matter
Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </para>
      <para>SAS No. 134, which also amends various
other AU-C sections, addresses the auditor’s responsibility to form
an opinion on the financial statements and the form and content of
the auditor’s report issued as a result of an audit of financial statements.
It also addresses the auditor’s responsibilities, and the form and
content of the auditor’s report, when the auditor concludes that a
modification to the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements
is necessary, and when additional communications are necessary in
the auditor’s report.</para>
      <para>
        At the time SAS No. 134 was originally
issued, the amendments were intended to become effective for audits
of financial statements for periods ending on or after December 15,
2020 and early implementation was not permitted; however, in May 2020,
the AICPA issued SAS No. 141, .
        <emphasis role="italic">Amendment to
the Effective Dates of SAS Nos. 134–140</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>SAS
No. 141 delays the effective dates of SAS Nos. 134–140, and the amendments
to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140, from December 15, 2020 to
December 15, 2021, in order to provide more time for firms to implement
these SASs in light of the effect of the coronavirus pandemic. SAS
Nos. 134, 136–137, and 139–140, as originally issued, do not permit
early implementation; however, SAS No. 141 amends these SASs to no
longer preclude early implementation. </para>
      <para>SAS Nos. 134 and
136–140 are interrelated because the Auditing Standards Board (ASB)
amended the auditor reporting model adopted in SAS No. 134 with the
issuance of the subsequent SASs. The effective dates were aligned
so that these SASs would be implemented as a suite, primarily to accommodate
the amendments to the auditor reporting model. Accordingly, the ASB
recommends that all of these SASs be implemented concurrently. SAS
No. 141 was effective upon issuance.</para>
    </paraBlock>
    <paraBlock role="ps_box">
      <para id="aag-afi5_update_5-2">
        <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
        <emphasis role="bold">
           Update
5-2 : Audit Evidence
          <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>
        In July 2020, the AICPA issued ,  (AU-C sec. 500), which supersedes AU-C section
500A, , and amends
the following AU-C sections: 
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">SAS No. 142</olink>
        <emphasis role="italic">Audit
Evidence</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_315">Section 315</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment
and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_330">Section 330</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response
to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_530">Section 530</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Audit Sampling</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">Section
540A</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates,
Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </para>
      <para>
         explains what constitutes audit evidence in an
audit of financial statements and sets out attributes of information
that are taken into account by the auditor when evaluating information
to be used as audit evidence.
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">SAS No. 142</olink>
      </para>
      <para>
        This SAS is effective for
audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after December
15, 2022. A link to the final SAS and other resources can be found
on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
        <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
      </para>
    </paraBlock>
    <section id="aag-afi5_01" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.01</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.01</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Fair presentation financial reporting
frameworks often use fair value hierarchies (for example, those used
in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America and International Financial Reporting Standards). This usually
means that the volume and detail of the required disclosures increases
as the level of measurement uncertainty increases. The distinction
between the levels in the hierarchy may require judgment. 
        <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
          <para>
             of this
guide describes the classification of the different levels (Level
1, Level 2, and Level 3 inputs).
            <olink targetptr="aag-afi1_26">Paragraph 1.26</olink>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_02" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.02</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.02</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor may find it useful to obtain
an understanding of how the financial instruments relate to the fair
value hierarchy. Ordinarily, the risk of material misstatement and
the level of audit procedures to be applied increases as the level
of measurement uncertainty increases. The use of Level 3 and some
Level 2 inputs from the fair value hierarchy may be a useful guide
to the level of measurement uncertainty. Level 2 inputs vary from
those that are easily obtained to those that are closer to Level 3
inputs. The auditor evaluates available evidence and understands both
the fair value hierarchy and the risk of management bias in management’s
categorization of financial instruments in the fair value hierarchy.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_03" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.03</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.03</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        In accordance with paragraph .08 of AU-C section 540B, , the auditor is required to obtain
an understanding of how management makes the accounting estimates
and the data on which they are based, which includes the entity’s
valuation policies and methodology for data and assumptions used in
the valuation methodology. In many cases, the applicable financial reporting framework
does not prescribe the specific valuation methodology. When this is
the case, matters that may be relevant to the auditor’s understanding
of how management values financial instruments include, for example
        <emphasis role="italic">c</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
          <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>whether management has a formal valuation policy and,
if so, whether the valuation technique used for a financial instrument
is appropriately documented in accordance with that policy.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>which models may give rise to the greatest risk of
material misstatement.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>how management considered the complexity of the valuation
of the financial instrument when selecting a particular valuation
technique.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>whether there is a greater risk of material misstatement
because management has internally developed a model to be used to
value financial instruments or is departing from a valuation technique
commonly used to value the particular financial instrument.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>whether management made use of a third-party pricing
source.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>whether those involved in developing and applying
the valuation technique have the appropriate skills and expertise
to do so, including whether management’s specialist has been used.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>whether there are indicators of management bias in
selecting the valuation technique to be used.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_assessing_the_risk_of_material_misstatement_related_to_valuation" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Assessing the Risk of Material Misstatement Related to
Valuation</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Assessing the Risk of Material Misstatement
Related to Valuation</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi5_04" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.04</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.04</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">When evaluating whether the valuation
techniques used by an entity are appropriate in the circumstances
and whether controls over valuation techniques are in place, the factors
considered by the auditor may include</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">The auditor (or auditor’s specialist) may
also independently develop one or more valuation techniques to compare
his or her output with that of the valuation techniques used by management.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>whether the valuation techniques are commonly used
by other market participants and have been previously demonstrated
to provide a reliable estimate of prices obtained from market transactions.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>whether the valuation techniques operate as intended,
and there are no flaws in their design, particularly under extreme
conditions, and whether they have been objectively validated. Indicators
of flaws include inconsistent movements relative to benchmarks.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>whether the valuation techniques take into account
the risks inherent in the financial instrument being valued, including
counterparty creditworthiness, and own credit risk in the case of
valuation techniques used to measure financial liabilities.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>how the valuation techniques are calibrated to the
market, including the sensitivity of the valuation techniques to changes
in variables.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>whether market variables and assumptions are used
consistently and whether new conditions justify a change in the valuation
techniques, market variables, or assumptions used.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>whether sensitivity analyses indicate that valuations
would change significantly with only small or moderate changes in
assumptions.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the organizational structure, such as the existence
of an internal department responsible for developing models to value
certain instruments, particularly when Level 3 inputs are involved.
For example, a model development function that is involved in assisting
in pricing deals is less objective than one that is functionally and
organizationally segregated from the sales function.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the competence and objectivity of those responsible
for the development and application of the valuation techniques, including
management’s relative experience with particular models that may be
newly developed.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_significant_risks" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Significant Risks</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Significant Risks</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi5_05" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>5.05</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">5.05</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s risk assessment process
may lead the auditor to identify one or more significant risks relating
to the valuation of financial instruments when any of the following
circumstances exist:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              High measurement uncertainty related to the valuation
of financial instruments (for example, those with unobservable inputs)
              <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
                <para>
                  When the auditor determines that the high estimation uncertainty
related to the valuation of complex financial instruments gives rise
to a significant risk, AU-C section 540B, , requires the auditor to perform
substantive procedures and evaluate the adequacy of the disclosure
of his or her estimation uncertainty. See paragraphs .11, .15, and
.20 of AU-C section 540B.
                  <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
                </para>
              </footnote>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Lack of sufficient evidence to support management’s
valuation of its financial instruments</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Lack of management understanding of its financial
instruments or expertise necessary to value such instruments properly,
including the ability to determine whether valuation adjustments are
needed</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Lack of management understanding of complex requirements
in the applicable financial reporting framework relating to measurement
and disclosure of financial instruments and the inability of management
to make the judgments required to properly apply those requirements</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The significance of valuation adjustments made to
valuation technique outputs when the applicable financial reporting
framework requires or permits such adjustments.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi5_06" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>5.06</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">5.06</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          For accounting estimates that give rise
to significant risks, in addition to other substantive procedures
performed to meet the requirements of AU-C section 330B, , paragraph
.15– of AU-C section 540B requires the auditor to evaluate the following:
          <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed
Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">c</emphasis>
        </para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>How management has considered alternative assumptions
or outcomes and why it has rejected them or how management has otherwise
addressed measurement uncertainty in making the accounting estimate</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Whether the significant assumptions used by management
are reasonable</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>When relevant to the reasonableness of the significant
assumptions used by management or the appropriate application of the
applicable financial reporting framework, management’s intent to carry
out specific courses of action and its ability to do so</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi5_07" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>5.07</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">5.07</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">As markets become inactive, the change
in circumstances may lead to a move from valuation by market price
to valuation by model or may result in a change from one particular
model to another. Reacting to changes in market conditions may be
difficult if management does not have policies in place prior to their
occurrence. Management may also not possess the expertise necessary
to develop a model on an urgent basis or select the valuation technique
that may be appropriate in the circumstances. Even when valuation
techniques have been consistently used, a need exists for management
to examine the continuing appropriateness of the valuation techniques
and assumptions used for determining valuation of financial instruments.
Further, valuation techniques may have been selected in times when
reasonable market information was available, but that information
may not provide reasonable valuations in times of unanticipated stress.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi5_08" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>5.08</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">5.08</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The susceptibility to management bias,
whether intentional or unintentional, increases with the subjectivity
of the valuation and the degree of measurement uncertainty. For example,
management may tend to ignore observable marketplace assumptions or
data and instead use its own internally-developed assumptions if those
assumptions yield more favorable results. Even without fraudulent
intent, there may be a natural temptation to bias judgments toward
the most favorable end of what may be a wide spectrum rather than
the point in the spectrum that might be considered to be most consistent
with the applicable financial reporting framework. Changing the valuation
technique from period to period without a clear and an appropriate
reason for doing so may also be an indicator of management bias. Although
some form of management bias is inherent in subjective decisions relating
to the valuation of financial instruments, when there is intention
to mislead, management bias is fraudulent in nature.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_developing_an_audit_approach" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Developing an Audit Approach</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Developing an Audit Approach</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi5_09" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.09</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.09</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In testing how management values the financial
instrument and in responding to the assessed risks of material misstatement
in accordance with paragraphs .12–.14 of AU-C section 540B, the auditor
undertakes one or more of the following procedures, taking account
of the nature of the accounting estimates:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">
        Many auditors find that a combination of
testing how management valued the financial instrument and the data
on which it is based and testing the operating effectiveness of controls
will be an effective and efficient audit approach. Although subsequent
events may provide some evidence about the valuation of financial
instruments, other factors may need to be taken into account to address
any changes in market conditions subsequent to the balance sheet date. If the auditor is unable to test how management made the
estimate, the auditor may choose to develop a point estimate or range.
        <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
          <para>Paragraphs .A64–.A67 of AU-C section 540B provide examples of
some of the factors that may be relevant.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Test how management made the accounting estimate and
the data on which it is based (including valuation techniques used
by the entity in its valuations).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Test the operating effectiveness of the controls over
how management made the accounting estimate, together with appropriate
substantive procedures.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Develop a point estimate or range to evaluate management’s
point estimate.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Determine whether events occurring up to the date
of the auditor’s report provide audit evidence regarding the accounting
estimate.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_10" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.10</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.10</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        As described in , "Gaining an Understanding About Financial Instruments,"
of this guide, to estimate the fair value of financial instruments,
management may
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi1">chapter 1</olink>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Management often may use a combination of
these approaches. For example, management may have its own pricing
process but use third-party pricing sources to corroborate its own
values.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>utilize information from third-party pricing sources.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>gather data to develop its own estimate using various
techniques, including models.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>engage a specialist to develop an estimate.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_audit_considerations_when_management" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Audit Considerations When Management Uses a Third-Party
Pricing Source</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Audit Considerations When Management
Uses a Third-Party Pricing Source</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi5_11" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.11</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.11</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Management may make use of a third-party
pricing source, such as a pricing service or broker, in valuing the
entity’s financial instruments. Understanding how management uses
the information and how the pricing service operates assists the auditor
in determining the nature and extent of audit procedures needed.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_12" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.12</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.12</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        AU-C section 500B, , explains that when information to be used
as audit evidence has been prepared using the work of management’s
specialist, the requirement with respect to management’s specialist
in paragraph .08 of AU-C section 500B applies. For example, an individual
or organization may possess expertise in the application of models
to estimate the fair value of securities for which no observable market
exists. If the individual or organization applies that expertise in
making an estimate that the entity uses in preparing its financial
statements, the individual or organization is a management’s specialist,
and paragraph .08 of AU-C section 500B applies. If, on the other hand,
that individual or organization merely provides price data regarding
private transactions not otherwise available to the entity that the
entity uses in its own estimation methods, such information, if used
as audit evidence, is subject to paragraph .07 of AU-C section 500B,
but it is not the use of management’s specialist by the entity.
        <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
          <para>
            See paragraph .A36 of AU-C section 500B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_13" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.13</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.13</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The following matters may be relevant
when management uses a third-party pricing source:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . Some third-party pricing sources make more information
available about their process. For example, a pricing service often
provides information about its methodology, assumptions, and data
in valuing financial instruments at the asset class level. By contrast,
brokers often provide no, or only limited, information about the inputs
and assumptions used in developing the quote.
            <emphasis role="italic">The type of third-party pricing
source</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . The reliability
of prices from third-party pricing sources varies depending on the
observability of inputs (and, accordingly, the level of inputs in
the fair value hierarchy) and the complexity of the methodology for
valuing a specific security or asset class. For example, the reliability
of a price for an equity investment actively traded in a liquid market
is higher than that of a corporate bond traded in a liquid market
that has not traded on the measurement date, which, in turn, is more
reliable than that of an asset-backed security that is valued using
a discounted cash flow model.
            <emphasis role="italic">The nature of inputs used
and the complexity of the valuation technique</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . For example, a third-party
pricing source may be experienced in a certain type of financial instrument
and be recognized as such but may not be similarly experienced in
other types of financial instruments. The auditor’s past experience
with the third-party pricing source may also be relevant in this regard.
            <emphasis role="italic">The reputation and experience
of the third-party pricing source</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . For example, if a price obtained by management
comes from a counterparty, such as the broker who sold the financial
instrument to the entity, or an entity with a close relationship with
the entity being audited, the price may not be reliable.
            <emphasis role="italic">The objectivity of the third-party
pricing source</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . The degree to which
management has controls in place to assess the reliability of information
from third-party pricing sources affects the reliability of the fair
value measurement. For example, management may have controls in place
to
            <emphasis role="italic">The entity’s controls over
the use of third-party pricing sources</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>review and approve the use of the third-party pricing
source, including consideration of the reputation, experience, and
objectivity of the third-party pricing source.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>determine the completeness, relevance, and accuracy
of the prices and pricing-related data.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . The controls and processes over valuations for
the asset classes are of interest to the auditor. For example, a third-party
pricing source may have strong controls around how prices are developed.
In addition, the third-party pricing source may include the use of
a formalized process for customers, both buy and sell side, to challenge
the prices received from the pricing service when supported by appropriate
evidence. This enables the third-party pricing source to constantly
correct prices to more fully reflect the information available to
market participants.
            <emphasis role="italic">The third-party pricing source’s
controls</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_14" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.14</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.14</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Possible approaches to gathering evidence
regarding information from third-party pricing sources may include
the following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>For Level 1 inputs, comparing the information from
third-party pricing sources with observable market prices</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Reviewing disclosures provided by third-party pricing
sources about their controls and processes, valuation techniques,
inputs, and assumptions</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Testing the controls that management has in place
to assess the reliability of information from third-party pricing
sources</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Performing procedures at the third-party pricing source
to understand and test the controls and processes, valuation techniques,
inputs, and assumptions used for asset classes or specific financial
instruments of interest</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Evaluating whether the prices obtained from third-party
pricing sources are reasonable in relation to prices from other third-party
pricing sources, the entity’s estimate, or the auditor’s own estimate</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Evaluating the reasonableness of valuation techniques,
inputs, and assumptions</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Developing a point estimate or range for some financial
instruments priced by the third-party pricing source and evaluating
whether the results are within a reasonable range of each other</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            Obtaining a service auditor’s report that covers the
controls over validation of the prices
            <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
              <para>
                Some pricing services may provide reports for users of its data
to explain their controls over pricing data (that is, a report prepared
in accordance with , . Management may request,
and the auditor may consider obtaining, such a report to develop an
understanding of how the pricing data is prepared and to evaluate
whether the controls at the pricing service can be relied upon. See  of this guide
for additional guidance.
                <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="atc_320">AT-C
section 320</olink>
                <olink targetptr="aag-afi3_48">paragraphs 3.48–.53</olink>
                <emphasis role="italic">Reporting on an Examination
of Controls at a Service Organization Relevant to User Entities’ Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting</emphasis>
              </para>
              <para>
                All AT-C sections can be found in AICPA .
                <tab/>
                <emphasis role="italic">
                  <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
                </emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_15" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.15</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.15</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Obtaining prices from multiple third-party
pricing sources may also provide useful information about measurement
uncertainty. A wide range of prices may indicate higher measurement
uncertainty and suggest that the financial instrument is sensitive
to small changes in data and assumptions. A narrow range may indicate
lower measurement uncertainty and suggest less sensitivity to changes
in data and assumptions. Although obtaining prices from multiple sources
may be useful, when considering financial instruments that have inputs
categorized at Levels 2 or 3 of the fair value hierarchy, in particular,
obtaining prices from multiple sources may not provide sufficient
appropriate audit evidence on its own because</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>what appear to be multiple sources of pricing information
may be utilizing the same underlying pricing source.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>understanding the inputs used by the third-party pricing
source in determining the price may be necessary in order to categorize
the financial instrument in the fair value hierarchy.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_16" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.16</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.16</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In some situations, the auditor may be
unable to gain an understanding of the process used to generate the
price, including any controls over the process of how reliably the
price is determined, or may not have access to the model, including
the assumptions and other inputs used. In such cases, the auditor
may decide to undertake to develop a point estimate or range to evaluate
management’s point estimate in responding to the assessed risk. </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_audit_considerations_when_management2" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Audit Considerations When Management Estimates Fair Values
Using a Model</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Audit Considerations When Management
Estimates Fair Values Using a Model</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi5_17" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.17</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.17</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Paragraph .13 of AU-C section 540B requires the auditor, if testing management’s
process of making the accounting estimate, to evaluate whether the
method of measurement used is appropriate in the circumstances and
the assumptions used by management are reasonable in light of the
measurement objectives of the applicable financial reporting framework
and whether the data on which the estimate is based is sufficiently
reliable for the auditor’s purposes.
        <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_18" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.18</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.18</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Whether management has used a third-party
pricing source or is undertaking its own valuation, models are often
used to value financial instruments, particularly when using inputs
at Levels 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy. In determining the
nature, timing, and extent of audit procedures on models, the auditor
may consider the methodology, assumptions, and data used in the model.
When considering more complex financial instruments, such as those
using Level 3 inputs, testing all three may be a useful source of
audit evidence. However, when the model is both simple and generally
accepted, such as some bond price calculations, audit evidence obtained
from focusing on the assumptions and data used in the model may be
a more useful source of evidence. </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_19" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.19</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.19</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Testing a model can be accomplished by
the following two main approaches:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>The auditor can test management’s model by considering
the appropriateness of the model used by management, the reasonableness
of the assumptions and data used, and the mathematical accuracy.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The auditor can develop his or her own estimate and
then compare the auditor’s valuation with that of the entity.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_20" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.20</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.20</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">When valuation of financial instruments
is based on unobservable inputs (that is, Level 3 inputs), matters
the auditor may consider include, for example, how management supports
the following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>The identification and characteristics of marketplace
participants relevant to the financial instrument</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>How unobservable inputs are determined on initial
recognition</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Modifications the auditor has made to his or her own
assumptions to reflect the auditor’s view of assumptions that marketplace
participants would use</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Whether he or she has incorporated the best input
information available in the circumstances</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>When applicable, how his or her assumptions take account
of comparable transactions</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Sensitivity analysis of models when unobservable inputs
are used and whether adjustments have been made to address measurement
uncertainty</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_21" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.21</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.21</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In addition, the auditor’s industry knowledge,
knowledge of market trends, and understanding of other entities’ valuations
(giving consideration to confidentiality) and other relevant price
indicators informs the auditor’s testing of the valuations and the
consideration of whether the valuations appear reasonable overall.
If the valuations appear to be consistently overly aggressive or conservative,
this may be an indicator of possible management bias.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_22" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.22</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.22</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">When there is a lack of observable external
evidence, it is particularly important that those charged with governance
have been appropriately engaged to understand the subjectivity of
management’s valuations and the evidence that has been obtained to
support these valuations. In such cases, it may be necessary for the
auditor to evaluate whether there has been a thorough review and consideration
of the issues, including any documentation, at all appropriate management
levels within the entity, including with those charged with governance.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_23" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.23</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.23</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        When markets become inactive or dislocated
or inputs are unobservable, management’s valuations may be more judgmental
and less verifiable and, as result, less reliable. In such circumstances,
the auditor may test the model by a combination of testing controls
operated by the entity, evaluating the design and operation of the
model, testing the assumptions and data used in the model, and comparing
its output to a point estimate or range developed by the auditor or
to other third-party valuation techniques.
        <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
          <para>
            Paragraph .13 of AU-C section
540B describes requirements when the auditor develops a range to evaluate
management’s point estimate. Valuation techniques developed by third
parties and used by the auditor may, in some circumstances, be considered
the work of an auditor’s specialist and subject to the requirements
in AU-C section 620B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">d</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Using the Work of an
Auditor’s Specialist</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_24" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.24</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.24</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        It is likely that in testing the inputs
used in an entity’s valuation methodology (for example, when such inputs are categorized in the
fair value hierarchy), the auditor will also be obtaining evidence
to support the disclosures required by the applicable financial reporting
framework. For example, the auditor’s substantive procedures to evaluate
whether the inputs used in an entity’s valuation technique (that is,
Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 inputs) are appropriate and tests of
an entity’s sensitivity analysis, if any, will be relevant to the
auditor’s evaluation of whether the disclosures achieve fair presentation.
        <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
          <para>See, for example, paragraph .15 of AU-C section 540B for requirements
relative to the auditor’s evaluation of management’s assumption regarding
significant risks.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_evaluating_whether_the_assumptions" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Evaluating Whether the Assumptions Used by Management
Are Reasonable</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Evaluating Whether the Assumptions Used
by Management Are Reasonable</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi5_25" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.25</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.25</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        An assumption used in a model may be deemed
to be significant if a reasonable variation in the assumption would
materially affect the measurement of the financial instrument. Management may have considered alternative assumptions
or outcomes by performing a sensitivity analysis. The extent of subjectivity
associated with assumptions influences the degree of measurement uncertainty
and may lead the auditor to conclude that a significant risk exits
(for example, in the case of Level 3 inputs). 
        <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn10" label="fn 10" role="number">
          <para>See paragraph .A113 of AU-C section 540B.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_26" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.26</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.26</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">For items valued by the entity using a
valuation model, the auditor does not function as an appraiser. Rather,
the auditor reviews the model and evaluates whether the assumptions
used are reasonable, and the model is appropriate, considering the
entity’s circumstances. For example, it may be inappropriate to use
discounted cash flows for valuing an equity investment in a start-up
enterprise if no current revenues exist on which to base the forecast
of future earnings or cash flows.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_27" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.27</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.27</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Audit procedures to test the assumptions
used by management, including those used as inputs to models, may
include evaluating whether</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">See paragraphs .A78–.A84 of AU-C section
540B for further considerations relative to evaluating the assumptions
used by management.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>and, if so, how management has incorporated market
inputs into the development of assumptions because it is generally
preferable to seek to maximize the use of relevant observable inputs
and minimize unobservable inputs.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the assumptions are consistent with observable market
conditions and the characteristics of the financial asset or liability.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the sources of market-participant assumptions are
relevant and reliable and how management has selected the assumptions
to use when a number of different marketplace assumptions exist.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>sensitivity analyses indicate that valuations would
change significantly with only small or moderate changes in assumptions.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_28" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.28</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.28</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s consideration of judgments
about the future is based on information available at the time at
which the judgment is made. Subsequent events may result in outcomes
that are inconsistent with judgments that were reasonable at the time
they were made.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_29" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.29</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.29</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Audit procedures dealing with management’s
assumptions are performed in the context of the audit of the entity’s
financial statements. The objective of the audit procedures is, therefore,
not intended to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide
an opinion on the assumptions themselves. Rather, the auditor performs
procedures to evaluate whether the assumptions provide a reasonable
basis for measuring fair values in the context of an audit of the
financial statements as a whole.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_30" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.30</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.30</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Identifying those assumptions that appear
to be significant to the fair value measurement requires the exercise
of judgment by management. The auditor focuses attention on the significant
assumptions that management has identified. Generally, significant
assumptions cover matters that materially affect the fair value measurement
and may include those that are</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>sensitive to variation or uncertainty in amount or
nature. (For example, assumptions about short-term interest rates
may be less susceptible to significant variation compared with assumptions
about long-term interest rates.)</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>susceptible to misapplication or bias.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_31" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.31</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.31</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor may consider the sensitivity
of the valuation to changes in significant assumptions, including
market conditions that may affect the value. When applicable, the
auditor may encourage management to use techniques such as sensitivity
analysis to help identify particularly sensitive assumptions. If management
has not identified particularly sensitive assumptions, the auditor
considers whether to employ techniques to identify those assumptions.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_32" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.32</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.32</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        The evaluation of whether the assumptions
provide a reasonable basis for the fair value measurements relates
to the whole set of assumptions, as well as each assumption individually.
Assumptions are frequently interdependent and, therefore, need to
be internally consistent. A particular assumption that may appear
reasonable when taken in isolation may not be reasonable when used
in conjunction with other assumptions. The auditor is required to
obtain an understanding of how management makes the accounting estimates
and the data on which they are based.
        <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn11" label="fn 11" role="number">
          <para>
            Paragraph .08 of AU-C section
540B.
            <emphasis role="italic">c</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_investments_reported_based_on" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Investments Reported Based on an Investee’s Financial
Results</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Investments Reported Based on an Investee’s
Financial Results</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi5_33" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.33</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.33</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Investments accounted for under the equity
method of accounting constitute components for purposes of AU-C section
600B, . Thus, financial statements that include investments accounted for
under the equity method are considered group financial statements,
and AU-C section 600B applies to investments accounted for under the
equity method of accounting. The auditor of the group financial statements
(that is, the financial statements of the investor) is required to
obtain an understanding of the component auditor (that is, the auditor
of the equity investee) and decide whether to make reference to the
audit of the equity investee in the auditor’s report on the group
financial statements. 
        <emphasis role="italic">Special Considerations — Audits of Group
Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_34" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.34</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.34</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">When the auditor of the group financial
statements has performed the procedures required by AU-C section 600B
necessary for determining whether to make reference and has determined
to make reference to the audit of the equity investee in the auditor’s
report on the group financial statements, obtaining and reading the
audited financial statements of the equity investee may constitute
sufficient appropriate evidence relative to the equity investment.
If, in the auditor’s judgment, additional audit evidence is needed,
examples of procedures the auditor may perform include, but are not
limited to, reviewing information in the investor’s files that relates
to the investee, such as investee minutes, budgets, and cash flows’
information, and making inquiries of investor management about the
investee’s financial results. The auditor may conclude that additional
audit evidence is needed because of, for example, significant differences
in fiscal year-ends, significant differences in accounting principles,
changes in ownership, or changes in conditions affecting the use of
the equity method.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_35" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.35</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.35</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        When a time lag in reporting between the
date of the financial statements of the investor and that of the investee
exists, the requirement in paragraph .38 of AU-C section 600B for
the group engagement team to evaluate whether appropriate adjustments
have been made to the financial statements is applicable. The effect
of the time lag may be material (for example, because the time lag
is not consistent with the prior period in comparative statements
or because a significant transaction occurred during the time lag).
If a change in time lag occurs that has a material effect on the investor’s
financial statements, the auditor should consider the consistency
of the financial statements for the periods presented, in accordance
with AU-C section 708B, , because of the change in reporting period.
        <emphasis role="italic">Consistency of Financial
Statements</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_36" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.36</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.36</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">When the carrying amount of the investment
in the investor’s financial statements is based on the investee’s
financial results and also reflects factors that are not recognized
in the investee’s financial statements (for example, goodwill) or
fair values of assets that are materially different from the investee’s
carrying amounts (for example, appreciated land), additional procedures
may be necessary to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence in
support of those amounts.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_37" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.37</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.37</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">AU-C section 600B also addresses the responsibilities
of the auditor of the group financial statements regarding</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>the appropriateness, completeness, and accuracy of
the elimination of unrealized profits and losses on transactions between
the entity and investee that is required when the equity method of
accounting is used to account for an investment under the applicable
financial reporting framework.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the adequacy of disclosures about material related-party
transactions.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>subsequent events and transactions of the investee
occurring after the date of the investee’s financial statements but
before the date of the investor auditor’s report that may require
adjustment to, or disclosure in, the investor financial statements.
Procedures to identify subsequent events and transactions that are
material to the investor’s financial statements may include reading
available interim financial statements of the investee and making
appropriate inquiries of the investor.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_38" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.38</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.38</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">If the auditor of the group financial
statements decides not to make reference to the audit of the equity
investee, and the equity investment constitutes a significant component
due to individual financial significance, the auditor of the group
financial statements is required by paragraph .52 of AU-C section
600B to perform, or request a component auditor to perform on the
group engagement team’s behalf, an audit of the financial statements
of the equity investee, adapted as necessary to meet the needs of
the group engagement team, using component materiality. If the equity
investment constitutes a significant component due to significant
risk of material misstatement, the auditor of the group financial
statements is required by paragraph .53 of AU-C section 600B to perform,
or request a component auditor to perform on the group engagement
team’s behalf, an audit of the financial information of the component;
an audit of one or more account balances, classes of transactions,
or disclosures relating to the likely significant risks of material
misstatement of the group financial statements; or specified audit
procedures relating to the likely significant risks of material misstatement
of the group financial statements.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_39" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.39</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.39</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">When the equity investment does not constitute
a significant component, AU-C section 600B requires the group engagement
team to perform analytical procedures at the group level. Obtaining
and reading the financial statements of the investee and the accompanying
audit report provides additional evidence on which to base the group
audit opinion.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_40" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.40</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.40</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
         of this guide address the situations when the auditor
is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to test
investments reported based on investee’s financial results.
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi6_19">Paragraphs
6.19–.21</olink>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_impairment_losses" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Impairment Losses</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Impairment Losses</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <paraBlock role="ps_box">
      <para id="aag-afi5_update_5-3">
        <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
        <emphasis role="bold">
           Update
5-3 : Auditing Accounting
Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related
Disclosures
          <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>
        In July 2020, the AICPA issued ,  (AU-C sec. 540), which supersedes , , and amends the following AU-C
sections: 
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">AU-C section 540A</olink>
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates,
and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_240">Section 240</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement
Audit</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,  
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_260">Section 260</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication With Those
Charged With Governance </emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_580">Section 580</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">Section 701</olink>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </para>
      <para>
         addresses the auditor’s responsibilities relating
to accounting estimates, including fair value accounting estimates
and related disclosures, in an audit of financial statements.
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
      </para>
      <para>
        This SAS is effective for audits of financial statements for
periods ending on or after December 15, 2023. A link to the final
SAS and other resources can be found on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
        <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
      </para>
    </paraBlock>
    <section id="aag-afi5_41" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.41</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.41</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Regardless of the valuation method used
(including those investments reported based on an investee’s financial
results), applicable financial reporting frameworks may require recognizing
in earnings an impairment loss for a decline in fair value that is
other than temporary. Determining whether losses are other than temporary
often involves estimating the outcome of future events. Accordingly,
judgment is required in determining whether factors exist that indicate
that an impairment loss has been incurred at the end of the reporting
period. These judgments are based on subjective, as well as objective,
factors, including knowledge and experience about past and current
events and assumptions about future events. The following are examples
of such factors:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Fair value is significantly below cost, and</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>the decline is attributable to adverse conditions
specifically related to the security or conditions in an industry
or a geographic area.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the decline has existed for an extended period of
time.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>management does not possess both the intent and ability
to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for
any anticipated recovery in fair value.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>The security has been downgraded by a rating agency.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The financial condition of the issuer or counterparty
has deteriorated.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Dividends have been reduced or eliminated, or scheduled
interest payments have not been made.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The entity recorded losses from the security subsequent
to the end of the reporting period.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_42" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.42</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.42</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        AU-C section 501B, , requires the auditor to ()
evaluate management’s conclusion (including the relevance of the information
considered) about the need to recognize an impairment loss for a decline
in a security’s fair value below its cost or carrying amount and () obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence
supporting the amount of any impairment adjustment recorded, including
evaluating whether the requirements of the applicable financial reporting
framework have been complied with. That includes evaluating () whether management has considered relevant information in determining
whether factors such as those listed in  exist and () management’s conclusions about the need to recognize an impairment
loss. That evaluation requires the auditor to obtain evidence about
such factors that tend to corroborate or conflict with management’s
conclusions.
        <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations for Selected Items</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn12" label="fn 12" role="number">
          <para>
            Paragraph .09 of AU-C section 501B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations for Selected Items</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi5_03">paragraph 5.03</olink>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_43" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.43</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.43</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor is not responsible for designing
procedures to detect the presence of these factors per se. Rather,
the auditor might evaluate whether management has considered information
that would be relevant in determining whether such factors exist.
For example, the auditor would not be responsible for determining
whether the financial condition of the issuer of a security has deteriorated
but, instead, would ask management how it considered the issuer’s
financial condition. Once the auditor has determined that the entity
considered relevant information, the auditor is responsible for evaluating
management’s conclusion about the need to recognize an impairment
loss. </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_44" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.44</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.44</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">If the entity has recognized an impairment
loss, and the auditor agrees with that conclusion, the auditor would</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>determine that the write-down of an investment to
a new cost basis is accounted for as a realized loss.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>test the calculation of the loss recorded.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>determine that the new cost basis of investments previously
written down is not changed for subsequent recoveries in fair value.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>review a summary of investments written down for completeness
and unusual items.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>evaluate management’s assessment of the credit rating
of the counterparty.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>conclude on the adequacy of impairment adjustments
recorded.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_audit_considerations_when_a" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Audit Considerations When a Management’s Specialist Is
Used by the Entity</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Audit Considerations When a Management’s
Specialist Is Used by the Entity</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi5_45" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.45</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.45</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        As discussed in  of this guide, management may engage a valuation
specialist to value some or all of the entity’s financial instruments.
Such specialists may be brokers, investment bankers, pricing services
that also provide valuation services, or other specialized valuation
firms.
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi1">chapter 1</olink>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_46" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.46</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.46</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraph .08 of AU-C section 500B contains
requirements for the auditor when evaluating evidence from a specialist
engaged by management. The extent of the auditor’s procedures in relation
to management’s specialist and that specialist’s work depend on the
significance of the specialist’s work for the auditor’s purposes.
Evaluating the appropriateness of management’s specialist’s work assists
the auditor in assessing whether the prices or valuations supplied
by management’s specialist provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence
to support the valuations. Examples of procedures the auditor may
perform include</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>evaluating the competence, capabilities, and objectivity
of management’s specialist (for example, his or her relationship with
the entity, reputation and standing in the market, experience with
the particular types of instruments, and understanding of the relevant
financial reporting framework applicable to the valuations).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>obtaining an understanding of the work of management’s
specialist (for example, by assessing the appropriateness of the valuation
technique[s] used and the key market variables and assumptions used
in the valuation technique[s]).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            evaluating the appropriateness of that specialist’s
work as audit evidence. At this point, the focus is on the appropriateness
of the specialist’s work at the level of the individual financial
instrument. For a sample of the relevant instruments, it may be appropriate
to develop an estimate independently (see  on developing a point estimate or range)
using different data and assumptions, then compare that estimate with
that of management’s specialist.
            <olink targetptr="aag-afi5_48">paragraphs 5.48–.49</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>other procedures that may include</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>modeling different assumptions to derive assumptions
in another model, then considering the reasonableness of those derived
assumptions.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>comparing management’s point estimates with the auditor’s
point estimates to determine if management’s estimates are consistently
higher or lower.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_47" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.47</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.47</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Assumptions may be made or identified
by management’s specialist to assist management in valuing its financial
instruments. Such assumptions, when used by management, become management’s
assumptions that the auditor needs to consider in the same manner
as management’s other assumptions. </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi5_developing_a_point_estimate" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Developing a Point Estimate or Range</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Developing a Point Estimate or Range</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi5_48" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.48</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.48</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        An auditor may develop a valuation technique
and adjust the inputs and assumptions used in the valuation technique
to develop a range for use in evaluating the reasonableness of management’s
valuation. The guidance in this chapter may assist the auditor in
developing a point estimate or range. In accordance with paragraph
.13(i) of AU-C section 540B, if
the auditor uses assumptions or methodologies that differ from management’s,
the auditor should obtain an understanding of management’s assumptions
or methodologies sufficient to establish that the auditor’s range
takes into account relevant variables and to evaluate any significant
differences from management’s valuation. The auditor may find it useful
to use the work of an auditor’s specialist to evaluate the reasonableness
of management’s valuation.
        <emphasis role="italic">d</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi5_49" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>5.49</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">5.49</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        In some cases, the auditor may conclude
that sufficient evidence cannot be obtained from the auditor’s attempts
to obtain an understanding of management’s assumptions or methodology
(for example, when a third-party pricing source uses internally developed
models and software and does not allow access to relevant information).
In such cases, the auditor may not be able to obtain sufficient appropriate
audit evidence about the valuation if the auditor is unable to perform
other procedures to respond to the risks of material misstatement,
such as developing a point estimate or range to evaluate management’s
point estimate, as discussed in . AU-C section 705B, , describes
the implications of the auditor’s inability to obtain sufficient appropriate
audit evidence.
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi5_47">paragraph
5.47</olink>
        <footnote id="aag-afi5_fn13" label="fn 13" role="number">
          <para>
            Paragraph .13 of AU-C section
540B.
            <emphasis role="italic">d</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
        <emphasis role="italic">Modifications
to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>