<root id="aag-afi4_procedures_relating_to_completeness" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Procedures Relating to Completeness, Accuracy, Existence,
Occurrence, and Rights and Obligations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Procedures Relating to Completeness,
Accuracy, Existence, Occurrence, and Rights and Obligations</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi4_inspection" role="ls_level_6">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Inspection</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsubsub_heading">Inspection</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi4_21" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.21</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.21</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Traded financial instruments typically
are maintained in electronic form and street name and, accordingly,
cannot be inspected. For example, even though stock certificates are
on file at a depository (for example, the Depository Trust Company),
those shares are allocated to broker-dealers, and the issuer has no
record of who owns shares. The broker-dealers send documents such
as proxy statements to stockholders. Confirmation of the security
provides evidence about the existence of financial instruments. Evidence
about existence also may be gathered by examining supporting documentation,
such as</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>instructions to portfolio managers or directed custodians.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>transaction confirmations.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>agreements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>contracts.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>minutes of investment committees.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_22" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.22</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.22</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">If the physical inspection of financial
instruments is possible, the auditor might consider the following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . Typically, financial instruments would be inspected at the same
time cash and other negotiable assets (for example, bearer bonds)
are counted. If financial instruments, cash, and other negotiable
assets cannot be counted at the same time, the auditor might use other
means to prevent the substitution of one type of negotiable asset
for another. For example, bags, boxes, safes, or whole rooms may be
sealed and counted at a later time.
            <emphasis role="italic">The timing of the inspection</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . The following attributes normally can be observed when inspecting
financial instruments:
            <emphasis role="italic">What to look for</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>The name of the issuer</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The description of the security</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The name of the owner of the security</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Any evidence of pledging or restrictions on disposal
shown on the certificate</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The number of shares of stock or face amount of debt
financial instruments</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_23" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.23</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.23</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">As previously stated, some financial instruments
do not involve an initial exchange of cash. Also, derivatives may
be embedded in agreements and difficult to identify. Finally, financial
instruments may be donated to entities such as not-for-profit organizations.
When inspecting documents such as minutes, agreements, and contracts,
the auditor’s overriding objective is to identify financial instruments
that may not have been recognized in the accounting records of the
entity.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>