<root id="aag-afi4_responding_to_the_risks" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Responding to the Risks of Material Misstatement</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Responding to the Risks of Material
Misstatement</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi4_13" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.13</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.13</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Paragraph .06 of AU-C section 330B requires
the auditor to design and perform further audit procedures whose nature,
timing, and extent are based on, and responsive to, the assessed risks
of material misstatement at the relevant assertion level. In accordance
with paragraph .A10 of AU-C section 500B, , further audit procedures comprise tests
of controls and substantive procedures.  of this guide provides guidance on obtaining an
understanding about internal control,  provides guidance on tests of controls, and  provide guidance
on substantive procedures. , "Examples of Control Objectives, Related Controls, and
Illustrative Tests of Controls for Financial Instruments," of this
guide provides examples of control objectives, related controls, and
illustrative tests of controls for financial instruments.
      <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi3">Chapter 3</olink>
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi4_14">paragraph 4.14</olink>
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi4_15">paragraphs 4.15–.34</olink>
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appC">Appendix
C</olink>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_tests_of_controls" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Tests of Controls</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Tests of Controls</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi4_14" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.14</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.14</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In reaching a decision on the nature,
timing, and extent of testing of controls, the auditor may consider
factors such as the following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>The nature, frequency, and volume of financial instrument
transactions.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The strength of controls, including whether controls
are appropriately designed to respond to the risks associated with
an entity’s volume of financial instrument transactions and whether
a governance framework over the entity’s financial instrument activities
exists.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The importance of particular controls to the overall
control objectives and processes in place at the entity, including
the sophistication of the information systems to support financial
instrument transactions.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The monitoring of controls and identified deficiencies
in control procedures.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The issues the controls are intended to address (for
example, controls related to the exercise of judgments compared with
controls over supporting data). Substantive procedures are likely
to be more effective than relying on controls related to the exercise
of judgment.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The competency of those involved in the control activities
(for example whether the entity has adequate capacity, including during
periods of stress, and ability to establish and verify valuations
for the financial instruments to which it is exposed).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The frequency of performance of these control activities.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The level of precision the controls are intended to
achieve.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The evidence of performance of control activities.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The timing of key financial instrument transactions
(for example, whether they are close to period-end).</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_substantive_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Substantive Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Substantive Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi4_15" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.15</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.15</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Designing substantive procedures includes
consideration of</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            the use of analytical procedures. Although analytical procedures undertaken by the auditor
can be effective as risk assessment procedures to provide the auditor
with information about an entity’s business, they may be less effective
as substantive procedures when performed alone because the complex
interplay of the drivers of the valuation often mask any unusual trends
that might arise.
            <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
              <para>
                Paragraph .06 of AU-C section
315B requires the auditor to apply analytical procedures as risk assessment
procedures to assist in assessing the risks of material misstatement
in order to provide a basis for designing and implementing responses
to the assessed risks. Paragraph .06 of AU-C section 520B, , requires the auditor
to use analytical procedures in forming an overall conclusion on the
financial statements. Analytical procedures may also be applied at
other stages of the audit.
                <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
                <emphasis role="italic">Analytical Procedures</emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>nonroutine transactions. Many financial transactions
are negotiated contracts between an entity and its counterparty (often
known as over the counter [OTC]). To the extent that financial instrument
transactions are not routine and outside an entity’s normal activities,
a substantive audit approach may be the most effective means of achieving
the planned audit objectives. In instances when financial instrument
transactions are not undertaken routinely, the auditor’s responses
to assessed risk, including designing and performing audit procedures,
take into consideration the entity’s possible lack of experience in
this area. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>availability of evidence. For example, when the entity
uses a third-party pricing source, evidence concerning the relevant
financial statement assertions may not be available from the entity.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>procedures performed in other audit areas. Procedures
performed in other financial statement areas may provide evidence
about the completeness of financial instrument transactions. These
procedures may include tests of subsequent cash receipts and payments
and the search for unrecorded liabilities.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the selection of items for testing. In some cases,
the financial instrument portfolio will comprise instruments with
varying complexity and risk. In such cases, judgmental selection of
items may be useful.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_16" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.16</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.16</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">For example, in the case of an asset-backed
security, in responding to the risks of material misstatement for
such a security, the auditor may consider performing some of the following
audit procedures related to the valuation assertion:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Examining contractual documentation to understand
the terms of the security, the underlying collateral, and the rights
of each class of security holder</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Inquiring about management’s process of estimating
cash flows</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Evaluating the reasonableness of assumptions, such
as prepayment rates, default rates, and loss reserves</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Obtaining an understanding of the method used to determine
the cash flow "waterfall"</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Comparing the results of the fair value measurement
with the valuations of other financial instruments with similar underlying
collateral and terms</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Reperforming calculations</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_timing_of_the_auditors" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Timing of the Auditor’s Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">
          Timing of the Auditor’s Procedures
          <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
            <para>
              Paragraphs .12 and .23–.24 of AU-C section 330B, , establish
requirements when the auditor performs procedures at an interim period
and explain how such audit evidence can be used.
              <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed
Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi4_17" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.17</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.17</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">After assessing the risks associated with
financial instruments, the engagement team determines the timing of
planned tests of controls and substantive audit procedures. The timing
of planned audit procedures varies depending on a number of factors,
including the frequency of the control operation, the significance
of the activity being controlled, and the related risk of material
misstatement. </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_18" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.18</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.18</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Although the auditor may decide that the
most efficient and effective strategy is to undertake most of the
audit procedures in relation to valuation and presentation close to
period-end, audit procedures in relation to other assertions, such
as completeness and existence, may be tested at an interim period.
For example, tests of controls may be performed at an interim period
for more routine controls, such as IT controls and authorizations
for new products. Also, it may be effective to test the operating
effectiveness of controls over new product approval by gathering evidence
at an interim period of the appropriate level of management sign-off
on a new financial instrument.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_19" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.19</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.19</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Auditors may perform some tests on models
as of an interim date (for example, by comparing the output of the
model with market transactions). Another possible interim procedure
for instruments with observable inputs is to test the reasonableness
of the pricing information provided by a third-party pricing source. </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_20" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.20</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.20</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Areas of more significant judgment are
often tested close to, or at, period-end because</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>valuations can change significantly in a short period
of time, making it difficult to compare and reconcile interim balances
with comparable information at the balance sheet date.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>an entity may engage in an increased volume of financial
instrument transactions between an interim period and year-end.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>manual journal entries may only be made after the
end of the accounting period.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>nonroutine or significant transactions may take place
late in the accounting period.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_procedures_relating_to_completeness" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Procedures Relating to Completeness, Accuracy, Existence,
Occurrence, and Rights and Obligations</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Procedures Relating to Completeness,
Accuracy, Existence, Occurrence, and Rights and Obligations</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi4_inspection" role="ls_level_6">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Inspection</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsubsub_heading">Inspection</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi4_21" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.21</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.21</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Traded financial instruments typically
are maintained in electronic form and street name and, accordingly,
cannot be inspected. For example, even though stock certificates are
on file at a depository (for example, the Depository Trust Company),
those shares are allocated to broker-dealers, and the issuer has no
record of who owns shares. The broker-dealers send documents such
as proxy statements to stockholders. Confirmation of the security
provides evidence about the existence of financial instruments. Evidence
about existence also may be gathered by examining supporting documentation,
such as</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>instructions to portfolio managers or directed custodians.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>transaction confirmations.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>agreements.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>contracts.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>minutes of investment committees.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi4_22" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.22</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.22</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">If the physical inspection of financial
instruments is possible, the auditor might consider the following:</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>
                . Typically, financial instruments would be inspected at the same
time cash and other negotiable assets (for example, bearer bonds)
are counted. If financial instruments, cash, and other negotiable
assets cannot be counted at the same time, the auditor might use other
means to prevent the substitution of one type of negotiable asset
for another. For example, bags, boxes, safes, or whole rooms may be
sealed and counted at a later time.
                <emphasis role="italic">The timing of the inspection</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
                . The following attributes normally can be observed when inspecting
financial instruments:
                <emphasis role="italic">What to look for</emphasis>
              </para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
          <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
            <listitem>
              <para>The name of the issuer</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>The description of the security</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>The name of the owner of the security</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>Any evidence of pledging or restrictions on disposal
shown on the certificate</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>The number of shares of stock or face amount of debt
financial instruments</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi4_23" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>4.23</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">4.23</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">As previously stated, some financial instruments
do not involve an initial exchange of cash. Also, derivatives may
be embedded in agreements and difficult to identify. Finally, financial
instruments may be donated to entities such as not-for-profit organizations.
When inspecting documents such as minutes, agreements, and contracts,
the auditor’s overriding objective is to identify financial instruments
that may not have been recognized in the accounting records of the
entity.</para>
        </section>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_confirmations" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Confirmations</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Confirmations</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi4_24" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.24</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.24</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Paragraph .A4 of AU-C section 505B, , states that the design
of a confirmation request may directly affect the confirmation response
rate and the reliability and nature of the audit evidence obtained
from responses. For example, a custodian would be able to confirm
the existence of financial instruments but may be unable to confirm
their valuation, the entity’s rights and obligations with respect
to the financial instruments, or their completeness. Additionally,
certain respondents’ accounting systems may facilitate the confirmation
of single transactions rather than entire account balances, or respondents
may not be able to confirm the balances of their installment loans,
but they may be able to confirm whether their payments are up to date,
the amount of the payment, and the key terms of their loans. Understanding
the entity’s arrangements and transactions with third parties is key
to determining the information to be confirmed. 
          <emphasis role="italic">External Confirmations</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_25" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.25</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.25</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Paragraph .07 of AU-C section 505B requires the auditor to select the appropriate
confirming party. AU-C section 505B further states that responses
to confirmation requests provide more relevant and reliable audit
evidence when confirmation requests are sent to a confirming party
who the auditor believes is knowledgeable about the information to
be confirmed. For example, a financial institution official who is
knowledgeable about the transactions or arrangements for which confirmation
is requested may be the most appropriate person at the financial institution
from whom to request confirmation.
          <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_26" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.26</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.26</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">When designing confirmations for financial
instruments, auditors might consider confirming the following attributes,
as applicable:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>The name of the issuer</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The description of the financial instruments</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The name of the owner of the financial instruments
or the parties to the financial instrument</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The terms of the financial instrument</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Any evidence of pledging or restrictions on disposal</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The investment certificate numbers on the documents</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The number of shares of stock or face amount of debt
securities</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_27" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.27</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.27</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraph .12 of AU-C section 505B states
that in the case of each nonresponse, the auditor should perform alternative
audit procedures to obtain relevant and reliable audit evidence. Examples
include the following:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Examining source documents, such as invoices or broker’s
statements</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Inspecting executed agreements</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Examining cash receipts, disbursements, and trade
confirmations subsequent to year-end</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_28" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.28</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.28</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          When an electronic confirmation process
or system is used, the auditor’s consideration of the risks includes
the consideration of risks that the electronic confirmation process
is not secure or is improperly controlled. An electronic confirmation system or process that creates
a secure confirmation environment may mitigate the risks of interception
or alteration. Creating a secure confirmation environment depends
on the process or mechanism used by the auditor and respondent to
minimize the possibility that the results will be compromised because
of interception or alteration of the confirmation. If the auditor
is satisfied that such a system or process is secure and properly
controlled, evidence provided by responses received using the system
or process may be considered reliable. Various means might be used
to validate the source of the electronic information. For example,
the use of encryption, electronic digital signatures, and procedures
to verify website authenticity may improve the security of the electronic
confirmation system or process. If a system or process that facilitates
electronic confirmation between the auditor and respondent is in place,
and the auditor plans to rely on the controls over such a system or
process, an assurance trust services report (for example, Systrust)
or another assurance report on that system or process may assist the
auditor in assessing the design and operating effectiveness of the
electronic and manual controls with respect to that system or process.
Such an assurance report may address the risks described in paragraph
.A13 of AU-C section 505B. If these risks are not adequately addressed
in such a report, the auditor may perform additional procedures to
address those risks. For example, the auditor may determine that it is appropriate
to address such risks by directly contacting the purported sender
(for example, by telephone) to validate the identity of the sender
of the response and to validate that the information received by the
auditor corresponds to what was transmitted by the sender.
          <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
            <para>
              Paragraph .A13 of AU-C section 505B, .
              <emphasis role="italic">External Confirmations</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
          <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
            <para>Paragraph .A15 of AU-C section 505B.</para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_analytical_procedures" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Analytical Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Analytical Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi4_29" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.29</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.29</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Analytical procedures are based on relationships
between data. The more predictable the relationships, the more precise
the auditor’s expectation of the financial statement account. The
value of many financial instruments can be highly volatile, making
valuation assertions about them ill-suited to testing via analytical
procedures. Additionally, the accounting for many financial instruments
is based on underlying assumptions that, oftentimes, are quite subjective.
Finally, the accounting for financial instruments may be highly dependent
on management’s intention. For example, the classification of debt
and equity securities depends on management’s ability and intent with
regard to holding those financial instruments. The accounting for
derivatives depends on management’s objectives in entering into those
financial instruments’ transactions.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_30" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.30</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.30</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">For these reasons, performing analytical
procedures alone may not sufficiently reduce audit risk for some assertions
about financial instruments. For example, analytical procedures would
not be effective in determining whether an embedded derivative has
been properly recognized in the financial statements or in evaluating
the fair value of a financial instrument whose value fluctuates greatly.
However, they may be effective in pointing out unrecorded derivatives,
such as interest rate swaps that contractually require no cash at
inception. For example, a difference from an expectation that interest
expense will be a fixed percentage of a note based on the interest
provisions of the underlying agreement may indicate the existence
of an interest rate swap agreement. Also, analytical procedures based
on expectations of relationships between income and assets may provide
some evidence about existence and completeness assertions.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_31" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.31</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.31</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Analytical procedures may also be effective
in corroborating the occurrence of income and expenses and, sometimes,
gains and losses associated with a financial instrument. For example,
the absence of a material difference from an expectation that interest
income will be a fixed percentage of a debt security based on the
effective interest rate when the entity purchased the security provides
evidence about the existence of the income (and the security). However,
auditors might consider that the income, expenses, gains, and losses
associated with a financial instrument may involve a complex interplay
of many factors. For example, if the fair value of a derivative is
derived from the interrelationship of exchange rates, interest rates,
rate differentials, or a combination of these, any attempts to develop
an expectation of a financial statement amount may be difficult.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_32" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.32</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.32</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Many of the auditor’s procedures can be
used to address a number of assertions. For example, procedures to
address the existence of an account balance at period-end will also
address the occurrence of a class of transactions and may also assist
in establishing proper cut-off because financial instruments arise
from legal contracts, and by verifying the accuracy of the recording
of the transaction, the auditor can also verify its existence and
obtain evidence to support the occurrence and rights and obligations
assertions at the same time and can confirm that transactions are
recorded in the correct accounting period. </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_other_procedures" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Other Procedures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Other Procedures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi4_33" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.33</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.33</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Other procedures that may provide audit
evidence to support the completeness, accuracy, and existence assertions
include</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>external confirmation of bank accounts, trades, and
custodian statements. This can be done by direct confirmation with
the counterparty (including the use of bank confirmations) in which
a reply is sent to the auditor directly. Alternatively, this information
may be obtained from the counterparty’s systems through a data feed.
When this is done, controls to prevent tampering with the computer
systems through which the information is transmitted may be considered
by the auditor in evaluating the reliability of the evidence from
the confirmation. If confirmations are not received, the auditor may
be able to obtain evidence by reviewing contracts and testing relevant
controls. However, external confirmations often do not provide adequate
audit evidence with respect to the valuation assertion, though they
may assist in identifying any side agreements. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>reviewing reconciliations of statements or data feeds
from custodians with the entity’s own records. This may necessitate
evaluating IT controls around and within automated reconciliation
processes and evaluating whether reconciling items are properly understood
and resolved.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>reviewing journal entries and the controls over the
recording of such entries. This may assist in, for example,</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>determining if entries have been made by employees
other than those authorized to do so.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>identifying unusual or inappropriate end-of-period
journal entries that may be relevant to fraud risk.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>reading individual contracts and reviewing supporting
documentation of the entity’s financial instrument transactions, including
accounting records, thereby verifying existence and rights and obligations.
For example, an auditor may read individual contracts associated with
financial instruments and review supporting documentation, including
the accounting entries made when the contract was initially recorded,
and may also subsequently review accounting entries made for valuation
purposes. Doing so allows the auditor to evaluate whether the complexities
inherent in a transaction have been fully identified and reflected
in the accounts. Legal arrangements and their associated risks need
to be considered by those with suitable expertise to ensure that rights
exist.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>performing tests of controls to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of relevant
controls.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>reviewing the entity’s complaints’ management systems.
Unrecorded transactions may result in the entity’s failure to make
a cash payment to a counterparty and may be detected by reviewing
complaints received. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>reviewing master netting arrangements to identify
unrecorded instruments.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi4_34" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>4.34</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">4.34</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">These procedures are particularly important
for some financial instruments, such as derivatives or guarantees,
because they may not have a large initial investment, meaning it may
be hard to identify their existence. For example, embedded derivatives
are often contained in contracts for nonfinancial instruments that
may not be included in confirmation procedures.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_dual_purpose_tests" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Dual-Purpose Tests</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Dual-Purpose Tests</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi4_35" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.35</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.35</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Although the purpose of a test of controls
is different from the purpose of a test of details, it may be efficient
to perform both at the same time by, for example</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>performing a test of controls and test of details
on the same transaction (for example, testing whether a signed contract
has been maintained and whether the details of the financial instrument
have been appropriately captured in a summary sheet).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>testing controls when testing management’s process
of making valuation estimates.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_additional_considerations_about_alternative" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Additional Considerations About Alternative Investments</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Additional Considerations About Alternative
Investments</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi4_36" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.36</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.36</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Alternative investments represent investments
for which a readily determinable fair value does not exist. The FASB  (ASC) glossary
defines  as follows:
        <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">readily determinable fair value</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        The fair value of an equity security is readily determinable
if sales prices or bid-and-asked quotations are currently available
on a securities exchange registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) or in the over-the-counter market, provided that
those prices or quotations for the over-the-counter market are publicly
reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
Quotations systems or by OTC Markets Group Inc. Restricted stock meets
that definition if the restriction terminates within one year.
        <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        The fair value of an equity security traded only in a foreign
market is readily determinable if that foreign market is of a breadth
and scope comparable to one of the U.S. markets referred to previously.
        <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        The fair value of an equity security that is an investment
in a mutual fund or in a structure similar to a mutual fund (that
is, a limited partnership or a venture capital entity) is readily
determinable if the fair value per share (unit) is determined and
published and is the basis for current transactions.
        <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_37" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.37</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.37</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        These alternative investments include
investments that are not listed on national exchanges or OTC markets
or for which quoted market prices are not available from sources such
as financial publications, the exchanges, or NASDAQ. These investments,
as discussed in , “Applicability of Practical
Expedient,” include hedge funds, private equity funds, real estate
funds, venture capital funds, commodity funds, offshore fund vehicles,
and funds of funds. Alternative investments may be structured as limited
partnerships, limited liability corporations, trusts, or corporations.
        <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_2220_18">Technical
Questions and Answers section 2220.18</olink>
        <footnote id="aag-afi_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
          <para>
            All Q&amp;A sections can be found in .
            <emphasis role="italic">
              <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tpa">Technical Questions and Answers</olink>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_38" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.38</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.38</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">When alternative investments are required
to be accounted for at fair value, the valuation assertion may involve
significant judgment by management in the assessment of the estimate
of fair value of the investment. The more complex or illiquid the
investment or the lack of sufficient management processes and records
over valuation, the greater the risk of misstatement and the more
persuasive audit evidence needs to be obtained by the auditor.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_39" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.39</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.39</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s understanding of the reliability
of the process used by the investor entity’s management to determine
estimated fair value is an important element in support of the resulting
amounts and, therefore, affects the nature, timing, and extent of
audit procedures. The auditor may test management’s fair value estimate
as of the balance sheet date by using one or more of the following
approaches. The approach(es) taken may not be the same for all alternative
investments in an investor entity’s portfolio because the nature of
the underlying investments and associated risk, as well as the information
available to management and the auditor, likely will be different
for each alternative investment. The higher the assessed risk of material
misstatement, the greater the need for the auditor to utilize a combination
of the following approaches:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . If the auditor determines that the nature and extent of auditing
procedures should include testing the measurement of the investor
entity’s investment, simply receiving a confirmation from the alternative
investment of the entity’s investments in financial instruments, either
in aggregate or on a security-by-security basis, does not, in and
of itself, constitute sufficient appropriate audit evidence in addressing
the valuation assertion. The extent of the additional audit procedures
is directly related to the assessed risk of material misstatement
of the financial statements.
            <emphasis role="italic">Confirm the alternative investment</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . A confirmation on a security-by-security basis may provide support
of the data used by the investor’s management in its valuation process.
In drafting a confirmation, the auditor may consider requesting a
description of each investment, ownership percentage or shares owned,
and estimated fair value. If detailed information is not available,
the auditor may look to the other data that management used in its
valuation and perform tests on such data. The nature of the tests
depends on the types of data used by management and the auditor’s
assessment of the risk of material misstatement of the financial statements.
            <emphasis role="italic">Review and test the investor
entity’s significant assumptions and the underlying data in its valuation
or analysis of the assumptions and data obtained from the fund manager</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . If audited financial statements
of the alternative investment are available as of the date of the
investor entity’s year-end, and the alternative investment follows
fair value accounting, the audited financial statements and an accompanying
auditor’s report may provide significant audit evidence regarding
the valuation of the investment. However, the investor entity and
fund often have different fiscal year-ends. In lower- or moderate-risk
situations, the auditor might be able to obtain the fund’s audited
financial statements as of the fund’s fiscal year-end and perform
(or arrange to have the fund’s auditor perform) additional procedures
to test the transactions and changes in fair value between the fund’s
fiscal year-end and the investor’s fiscal year-end.
            <emphasis role="italic">Reconcile to audited financial
statements as of the same date</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . Evidence of an actual transaction,
such as an investment in, or liquidation of, a portion of its alternative
investment as of a date close to the investor entity’s fiscal year-end,
may provide information for management to support the valuation of
the alternative investment. The auditor may consider how often settlements
occur and the terms used to determine the value of the settlement.
Issues to consider include whether the process used for the settlement
is the same process used for financial reporting; whether there are
holdbacks or potential true-ups subsequent to the balance sheet date;
and the possibility that the parties to the transactions were not
both willing buyers and sellers, such as in a distress sale.
            <emphasis role="italic">Review transactions at or
near the balance sheet date</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_40" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.40</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.40</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">If management estimates the fair value
of a significant portion of its alternative investments as of an interim
date, management will need a robust process and strong internal control
over the roll-forward period to the balance sheet date. Because the
valuation assertion embedded in the financial statements is as of
the balance sheet date, management needs to have the ability to obtain
sufficient information to record the investments at estimated fair
value as of the balance sheet date, including changes in the estimated
fair value during the roll-forward period. In this situation, the
auditor may test both the estimation process as of the interim date
and the roll-forward process.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>