<root id="aag-afi_appF_fasb_asu_no__201905" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2019-05, Financial Instruments — Credit
Losses (Topic 326): Targeted Transition Relief</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2019-05, Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses (Topic 326): Targeted Transition Relief</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    In May 2019, FASB issued ASU No. 2019-05,
to provide entities that have certain instruments within the scope
of FASB ASC 326-20 with an option to irrevocably elect the fair value
option applied on an instrument-by-instrument basis for certain financial
assets upon the adoption of FASB ASC 326, . The fair value
option election does not apply to held-to-maturity debt securities.
An entity that elects the fair value option should subsequently apply
the guidance in FASB ASC 820-10 and 825-10. 
    <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments — Credit Losses</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">For entities that have not yet adopted the
amendments in ASU No. 2016-13, the effective date and transition methodology
for the amendments in ASU No. 2019-05 are the same as in ASU No. 2016-13.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">For entities that have adopted the amendments
in ASU No. 2016-13, the amendments in ASU No. 2019-05 are effective
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim
periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted in
any interim period after the issuance of ASU No. 2019-05, as long
as an entity has adopted the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13.</para>
</root>