<root id="aag-afi4_confirmations" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Confirmations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Confirmations</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi4_24" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.24</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.24</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Paragraph .A4 of AU-C section 505B, , states that the design
of a confirmation request may directly affect the confirmation response
rate and the reliability and nature of the audit evidence obtained
from responses. For example, a custodian would be able to confirm
the existence of financial instruments but may be unable to confirm
their valuation, the entity’s rights and obligations with respect
to the financial instruments, or their completeness. Additionally,
certain respondents’ accounting systems may facilitate the confirmation
of single transactions rather than entire account balances, or respondents
may not be able to confirm the balances of their installment loans,
but they may be able to confirm whether their payments are up to date,
the amount of the payment, and the key terms of their loans. Understanding
the entity’s arrangements and transactions with third parties is key
to determining the information to be confirmed. 
      <emphasis role="italic">External Confirmations</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_25" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.25</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.25</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Paragraph .07 of AU-C section 505B requires the auditor to select the appropriate
confirming party. AU-C section 505B further states that responses
to confirmation requests provide more relevant and reliable audit
evidence when confirmation requests are sent to a confirming party
who the auditor believes is knowledgeable about the information to
be confirmed. For example, a financial institution official who is
knowledgeable about the transactions or arrangements for which confirmation
is requested may be the most appropriate person at the financial institution
from whom to request confirmation.
      <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_26" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.26</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.26</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">When designing confirmations for financial
instruments, auditors might consider confirming the following attributes,
as applicable:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>The name of the issuer</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The description of the financial instruments</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The name of the owner of the financial instruments
or the parties to the financial instrument</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The terms of the financial instrument</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Any evidence of pledging or restrictions on disposal</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The investment certificate numbers on the documents</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>The number of shares of stock or face amount of debt
securities</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_27" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.27</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.27</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraph .12 of AU-C section 505B states
that in the case of each nonresponse, the auditor should perform alternative
audit procedures to obtain relevant and reliable audit evidence. Examples
include the following:</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Examining source documents, such as invoices or broker’s
statements</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Inspecting executed agreements</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Examining cash receipts, disbursements, and trade
confirmations subsequent to year-end</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_28" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.28</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.28</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      When an electronic confirmation process
or system is used, the auditor’s consideration of the risks includes
the consideration of risks that the electronic confirmation process
is not secure or is improperly controlled. An electronic confirmation system or process that creates
a secure confirmation environment may mitigate the risks of interception
or alteration. Creating a secure confirmation environment depends
on the process or mechanism used by the auditor and respondent to
minimize the possibility that the results will be compromised because
of interception or alteration of the confirmation. If the auditor
is satisfied that such a system or process is secure and properly
controlled, evidence provided by responses received using the system
or process may be considered reliable. Various means might be used
to validate the source of the electronic information. For example,
the use of encryption, electronic digital signatures, and procedures
to verify website authenticity may improve the security of the electronic
confirmation system or process. If a system or process that facilitates
electronic confirmation between the auditor and respondent is in place,
and the auditor plans to rely on the controls over such a system or
process, an assurance trust services report (for example, Systrust)
or another assurance report on that system or process may assist the
auditor in assessing the design and operating effectiveness of the
electronic and manual controls with respect to that system or process.
Such an assurance report may address the risks described in paragraph
.A13 of AU-C section 505B. If these risks are not adequately addressed
in such a report, the auditor may perform additional procedures to
address those risks. For example, the auditor may determine that it is appropriate
to address such risks by directly contacting the purported sender
(for example, by telephone) to validate the identity of the sender
of the response and to validate that the information received by the
auditor corresponds to what was transmitted by the sender.
      <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
        <para>
          Paragraph .A13 of AU-C section 505B, .
          <emphasis role="italic">External Confirmations</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
      <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
        <para>Paragraph .A15 of AU-C section 505B.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
</root>