<root id="aag-afi2_planning_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Planning Considerations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">
      Planning Considerations
      <footnote id="aag-afi2_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
        <para>
          AU-C section 300B, , addresses the auditor’s responsibility to plan an audit of financial
statements.
          <emphasis role="italic">Planning an Audit</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi2_04" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>2.04</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">2.04</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s focus in planning the audit
procedures related to financial instruments is primarily on</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>understanding the accounting and disclosure requirements.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>understanding the financial instruments to which the
entity is exposed and their purpose and risks.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>determining whether specialized skills and knowledge
are needed in the audit.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>understanding and evaluating the system of internal
control in light of the entity’s financial instrument transactions
and the information systems that fall within the scope of the audit.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>understanding the nature, role, and activities of
the internal audit function.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>understanding management’s process for valuing financial
instruments, including whether management has used a pricing source,
valuation specialist or service organization.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>assessing and responding to the risk of material misstatement.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>