<root id="aag-afi3_risk_management_function" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Risk Management Function</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Risk Management Function</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi3_21" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.21</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.21</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Some entities (for example, large financial
institutions with a high volume of financial instrument transactions)
may be required by law or regulation or may choose to establish a
formal risk management function. This function is separated from those
responsible for undertaking and managing financial instrument transactions.
The function is responsible for reporting on and monitoring financial
instrument activities and may include a formal risk committee established
by those charged with governance. Examples of key responsibilities
in this area may include</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      implementing the risk management policy set by those charged with
governance (including analyses of the risks to which an entity may
be exposed).
      <emphasis role="italic">
        a.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      designing risk limit structures and ensuring these risk limits are
implemented in practice.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        b.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      developing stress scenarios and subjecting open position portfolios
to sensitivity analysis, including reviews of unusual movements in
positions.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        c.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      reviewing and analyzing new financial instrument products.
      <emphasis role="italic">
        d.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_22" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.22</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.22</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Financial instruments may have the associated
risk that a loss might exceed the amount, if any, of the value of
the financial instrument recognized on the balance sheet. For example,
a sudden fall in the market price of a commodity may force an entity
to realize losses to close a forward position in that commodity due
to collateral, or margin, requirements. In some cases, the potential
losses may be enough to cast substantial doubt on the entity’s ability
to continue as a going concern. The entity may perform sensitivity
analyses or value-at-risk analyses to assess the future hypothetical
effects on financial instruments subject to market risks. However,
value-at-risk analysis does not fully reflect the extent of the risks
that may affect the entity; sensitivity and scenario analyses also
may be subject to limitations.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_23" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.23</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.23</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The volume and sophistication of financial
instrument activity and relevant regulatory requirements will influence
the entity’s consideration whether to establish a formal risk management
function and how the function may be structured. In entities that
have not established a separate risk management function (for example,
entities with relatively few financial instruments or financial instruments
that are less complex), reporting on and monitoring financial instrument
activities may be a component of the accounting or finance function’s
responsibility or management’s overall responsibility and may include
a formal risk committee established by those charged with governance.</para>
  </section>
</root>