<root id="aag-afi3_how_the_use_of" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>How the Use of a Service Organization May Affect the
User Auditor’s Procedures</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">How the Use of a Service Organization
May Affect the User Auditor’s Procedures</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi3_43" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.43</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.43</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Use of a service organization’s services
that are part of a user entity’s information system may affect the
nature, timing, and extent of the user auditor’s substantive procedures
related to financial statement assertions about financial instruments.
For example, if supporting documentation, such as derivative contracts
or financial instruments’ purchase and sales advices, is located at
a service organization, it may be necessary for the user auditor or
another auditor to visit the service organization to inspect the documentation.
Also, if investment advisers, holders of financial instruments, recordkeepers,
and other service organizations electronically transmit, process,
maintain, or access significant information about the user entity’s
financial instruments, it may not be practicable or possible for the
user auditor to obtain an understanding of the user entity’s internal
control over financial instruments, assess the risk of material misstatement
for financial statement assertions about financial instruments, and
design and perform further audit procedures to address those risks
without identifying controls placed into operation by the service
organization or user entity and gathering sufficient appropriate evidence
about the operating effectiveness of those controls.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_44" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.44</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.44</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The case study in , "Case Study of How an Entity’s
Use of a Service Organization Affects the Auditor’s Considerations
in Auditing Financial Instruments," of this guide discusses the effect
on the auditor’s consideration of the risk of material misstatement
of financial statement assertions about financial instruments if one
or more service organizations provides financial instrument services
to the entity under a discretionary arrangement. Those discussions
address the following two types of situations:
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi8">chapter 8</olink>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Two separate service organizations. In this situation,
one service organization initiates transactions as an investment adviser,
and a second service organization holds and services the financial
instruments. The auditor may corroborate information provided by the
two organizations. For example, the auditor may confirm holdings with
the holder of the financial instruments and apply other substantive
procedures to transactions reported by the user entity based on information
provided by the investment adviser. Depending on the facts and circumstances,
the auditor also may confirm transactions or holdings with the investment
adviser and review the reconciliation of differences. </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>One service organization. In this situation, one service
organization initiates transactions as an investment adviser and also
holds and services the financial instruments. All the information
available to the auditor is based on one service organization’s information.
Therefore, the auditor may have to obtain evidence about the operating
effectiveness of the service organization’s controls. The auditor
may be unable to obtain an understanding of the user entity’s internal
control over financial instrument transactions; assess the risk of
material misstatement for financial statement assertions about financial
instruments; and design and perform further audit procedures, including
substantive audit procedures, to address those risks without obtaining
audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of relevant service
organization controls. An example of such controls is establishing
independent departments that provide the investment advisory services
and the holding and servicing of financial instruments, then reconciling
the information about the financial instruments provided by each department.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_45" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.45</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.45</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">If a user entity uses the services of
one or more service organizations, and those services are part of
the user entity’s information system for financial instruments, the
user auditor may be unable to sufficiently limit audit risk for the
completeness assertion with respect to financial instruments without
obtaining audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of controls
at the service organizations. Because derivatives transactions may
not require an initial exchange of tangible consideration, they may
not be recorded; therefore, testing reconciliations of information
provided by two or more service organizations may not sufficiently
limit audit risk for assertions about the completeness of derivatives.
Accordingly, the auditor may need to perform additional audit procedures
at the user entity to address completeness.</para>
  </section>
</root>