<root id="aag-afi1_36" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>1.36</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">1.36</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">When no current observable market price
for the financial instrument (that is, a level 1 input) exists, it
will be necessary for the entity to gather other price indicators
to use in a valuation technique to value the financial instrument.
Price indicators may include</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>recent transactions, including transactions after
the date of the financial statements in the same instrument. Consideration
is given to whether an adjustment needs to be made for changes in
market conditions between the measurement date and the date the transaction
was made because these transactions are not necessarily indicative
of the market conditions that existed at the date of the financial
statements. In addition, it is possible the transaction represents
a forced transaction and, therefore, is not indicative of a price
in an orderly trade.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>current or recent transactions in similar instruments,
often known as proxy pricing. Adjustments will need to be made to
the price of the proxy to reflect the differences between it and the
instrument being priced (for example, to take account of differences
in liquidity or credit risk between the two instruments).</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>indexes for similar instruments. As with transactions
in similar instruments, adjustments will need to be made to reflect
the difference between the instrument being priced and the instrument(s)
from which the index used is derived.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>transactions in the financial instrument occurring
on thinly traded markets, such as OTC or bulletin board exchanges.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>