<root id="aag-afi3_01" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>3.01</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">3.01</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">
    AU-C section 315B, , addresses the auditor’s responsibility
to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the financial
statements through understanding the entity and its environment, including
the entity’s internal control. Obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment,
including the entity’s internal control, is a continuous, dynamic
process of gathering, updating, and analyzing information throughout
the audit. The understanding obtained enables the auditor to identify
and assess the risks of material misstatement at the financial statement
and assertion levels, thereby providing a basis for designing and
implementing responses to the assessed risks of material misstatement.
The volume and variety of the financial instrument transactions of
an entity typically determine the nature and extent of controls that
may exist at an entity. An understanding of how financial instruments
are monitored and controlled assists the auditor in determining the
nature, timing, and extent of audit procedures.
    <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks
of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
    <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
      <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
    </footnote>
  </para>
</root>