<root id="pra-sqcs_1_human_resources" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Human Resources</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Human Resources</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="pra-sqcs_1_13" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.13</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.13</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The purpose of the human resources element
of a system of quality control is to provide the firm with reasonable
assurance that it has sufficient personnel with the capabilities,
competence, and commitment to ethical principles necessary () to perform its engagements in accordance
with professional standards and regulatory and legal requirements,
and () to enable the firm to issue
reports that are appropriate in the circumstances. Establishing and
maintaining policies such as the following assist the firm in obtaining
this assurance:
      <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
    </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>Recruit and hire personnel of integrity who possess
the characteristics that enable them to perform competently.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          Determine capabilities and competencies required for
an engagement, especially for the engagement partner, based on the
characteristics of the particular client, industry, and kind of service
being performed. Specific competencies necessary for an engagement
partner are discussed in  of QM section 10A.
          <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="qm_10a_a27">paragraph .A27</olink>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Determine the capabilities and competencies possessed
by personnel.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Assign the responsibility for each engagement to an
engagement partner.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Assign personnel based on the knowledge, skills, and
abilities required in the circumstances and the nature and extent
of supervision needed.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Have personnel participate in general and industry-specific
continuing professional education and professional development activities
that enable them to accomplish assigned responsibilities and satisfy
applicable continuing professional education requirements of the AICPA,
state boards of accountancy, and other regulators.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Select for advancement only those individuals who
have the qualifications necessary to fulfill the responsibilities
they will be called on to assume.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>