<root id="aag-afi1_categories_of_disclosures" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Categories of Disclosures</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Categories of Disclosures</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi1_59" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.59</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.59</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Disclosure requirements include</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>quantitative disclosures that are derived from the
amounts included in the financial statements (for example, categories
of financial assets and liabilities).</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>quantitative disclosures that require significant
judgment (for example, sensitivity analysis for each type of market
risk to which the entity is exposed).</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>qualitative disclosures (for example, those that describe
the entity’s governance over financial instruments; objectives; controls,
policies, and processes for managing each type of risk arising from
financial instruments; and the methods used to measure the risks).</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_60" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.60</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.60</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The more sensitive the valuation to movements
in a particular variable, the more likely it is that disclosure will
be necessary to indicate the uncertainties surrounding the valuation.
Financial reporting frameworks may also require disclosure of sensitivity
analyses, including the effects of changes in assumptions used in
the entity’s valuation techniques. For example, the additional disclosures
required for financial instruments with fair value measurements that
are categorized within level 3 inputs of the fair value hierarchy
are aimed at informing users of financial statements about the effects
of those fair value measurements that use the most subjective inputs.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_61" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.61</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.61</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Financial reporting frameworks may require
disclosure of information that enables users of the financial statements
to evaluate the nature and extent of the risks arising from financial
instruments to which the entity is exposed at the reporting date.
The extent of disclosure depends on the extent of the entity’s exposure
to risks arising from financial instruments. This includes qualitative
disclosures about</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>the exposures to risk and how they arise, including
the possible effects on an entity’s future liquidity and collateral
requirements.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the entity’s objectives, policies, and processes for
managing the risk and the methods used to measure the risk.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>any changes in exposures to risk or objectives, policies,
or processes for managing risk from the previous period.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>