<root id="aag-afi3_the_entitys_control_environment" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>The Entity’s Control Environment</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Entity’s Control Environment</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi3_commitment_to_competence" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Commitment to Competence </titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Commitment to Competence </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_07" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.07</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.07</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The degree of complexity of some financial
instrument activities may mean that only a few individuals within
the entity fully understand those activities or have the expertise
necessary to value the instruments on an ongoing basis. Use of financial
instruments without relevant expertise within the entity increases
the risk of material misstatement.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_participation_by_those_charged" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Participation by Those Charged With Governance</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Participation by Those Charged With
Governance</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_08" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.08</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.08</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraph .A79 of AU-C section 315B addresses
elements of the control environment that may be relevant when obtaining
an understanding of the control environment and identifies the following
attributes of those charged with governance:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        their independence from management.
        <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        their experience and stature.
        <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        the extent of their involvement and the information they receive
and the scrutiny of activities.
        <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        the appropriateness of their actions, including the degree
to which difficult questions are raised and pursued with management.
        <emphasis role="italic">d.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        their interaction with internal and external auditors.
        <emphasis role="italic">e.</emphasis>
        <tab/>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Those charged with governance oversee and
concur with management’s establishment of the entity’s overall risk
appetite and provide oversight over the entity’s financial instrument
activities. An entity’s policies for the purchase, sale, and holding
of financial instruments are aligned with its attitude toward risk
and the expertise of those involved in financial instrument activities.
In addition, an entity may establish governance structures and control
processes aimed at</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>communicating investment decisions and assessments
of all material measurement uncertainty to those charged with governance,
as well as </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>evaluating the entity’s overall risk appetite when
engaging in financial instrument transactions.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_organizational_structure" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Organizational Structure</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Organizational Structure</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_09" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.09</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.09</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Financial instrument activities may be
operated on either a centralized or decentralized basis. Such activities
and related decision making depend heavily on the flow of accurate,
reliable, and timely management information. The difficulty of collecting
and aggregating such information increases with the number of locations
and businesses in which an entity is involved. The risks of material
misstatement associated with financial instrument activities may increase
with greater decentralization of control activities. This may especially
be true when an entity is based in different locations or, perhaps,
other countries.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_assignment_of_authority_and" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Assignment of Authority and Responsibility</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Assignment of Authority and Responsibility</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_10" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.10</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.10</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Providing direction through clearly stated
policies approved by those charged with governance for the purchase,
sale, and holding of financial instruments enables management to establish
an effective approach to taking and managing business risks. These
policies are most clear when they state the entity’s objectives with
regard to its risk management activities and the financial instrument
and hedging alternatives available to meet these objectives and when
they reflect the following:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Level of management’s expertise
        <emphasis role="italic">
          a.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Sophistication of the entity’s internal control and monitoring systems
        <emphasis role="italic">
          b.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Entity’s asset and liability structure
        <emphasis role="italic">
          c.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Entity’s capacity to maintain liquidity and absorb losses of capital
        <emphasis role="italic">
          d.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Types of financial instruments that management believes will meet
its objectives
        <emphasis role="italic">
          e.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Uses of financial instruments that management believes will meet
its objectives (for example, whether derivatives may be used for speculative
purposes or only for hedging purposes)
        <emphasis role="italic">
          f.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_11" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.11</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.11</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Management may design policies aligned
with its valuation capabilities and establish controls to ensure that
these policies are adhered to by those employees responsible for the
entity’s valuation. These may include</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        processes for the design and validation of methodologies used to
produce valuations, including how measurement uncertainty is addressed.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          a.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        policies regarding maximizing the use of observable inputs and the
types of information to be gathered to support valuations of financial
instruments.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          b.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_12" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.12</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.12</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In smaller entities, dealing in financial
instruments may be rare, and management’s knowledge and experience
may be limited. Nevertheless, establishing policies over financial
instruments helps an entity determine its risk appetite and consider
whether investing in particular financial instruments achieves a stated
objective.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_human_resource_policies_and" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Human Resource Policies and Practices</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Human Resource Policies and Practices</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_13" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.13</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.13</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Entities may establish policies requiring
key employees, both sales function and administrative and support
services, to take mandatory time off from their duties. This type
of control is used as a means of preventing and detecting fraud, in
particular if those engaged in trading activities are creating false
trades or inaccurately recording transactions.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_use_of_service_organizations" role="ls_level_5">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Use of Service Organizations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Use of Service Organizations</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_14" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.14</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.14</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Entities may use service organizations
(for example, asset managers) to initiate the purchase or sale of
financial instruments, maintain records of transactions for the entity,
or value financial instruments. Some entities may be dependent on
these service organizations to provide the basis of reporting for
the financial instruments held. However, if management does not have
an understanding about the controls in place at a service organization,
the auditor may not be able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence to rely on controls at that service organization. AU-C section
402B, , establishes requirements
for the auditor to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence when
an entity uses the services of one or more service organizations.  provide further
guidance about the use of a service organization.
        <emphasis role="italic">Audit Considerations Relating to an
Entity Using a Service Organization</emphasis>
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi3_40">Paragraphs 3.40–.54</olink>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_15" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.15</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.15</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The use of service organizations may strengthen
or weaken the control environment for financial instruments. For example,
a service organization’s personnel may have more experience with financial
instruments than the entity’s management or more robust internal control
over financial reporting. The use of the service organization also
may allow for greater segregation of duties. On the other hand, the
service organization may have a poor control environment. </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_16" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.16</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.16</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        , "Illustrative Questions About the Entity’s Controls Over
Its Financial Instrument Activities," of this guide provides an illustration
of questions that may be helpful to the auditor in obtaining an understanding
of an entity’s controls over its financial instrument activities.
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appB">Appendix
B</olink>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>