<root id="aag-afi6_reporting_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Reporting Considerations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Reporting Considerations</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <paraBlock role="ps_box">
    <para id="aag-afi6_update_6-3">
      <icon fileref="images/icon-guidance.png"/>
      <emphasis role="bold">
         Update
6-3 : Auditor Reporting
and Amendments, Including Amendments Addressing Disclosures in the
Audit of Financial Statements
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
      In May 2019,
the AICPA issued SAS No. 134, . This suite of auditor reporting
standards includes a new (although not required)  and replaces the following
AU-C sections in AICPA :
      <emphasis role="italic">Auditor Reporting
and Amendments, Including Amendments Addressing Disclosures in the
Audit of Financial Statements</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Professional Standards</emphasis>
      <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">AU-C section 701</olink>
    </para>
    <para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            , 
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_705">Section 705</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent
Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            ,  
            <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_706">Section 706</olink>
            <emphasis role="italic">Emphasis-of-Matter Paragraphs and Other-Matter
Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>SAS No. 134, which also amends various
other AU-C sections, addresses the auditor’s responsibility to form
an opinion on the financial statements and the form and content of
the auditor’s report issued as a result of an audit of financial statements.
It also addresses the auditor’s responsibilities, and the form and
content of the auditor’s report, when the auditor concludes that a
modification to the auditor’s opinion on the financial statements
is necessary, and when additional communications are necessary in
the auditor’s report.</para>
    <para>
      At the time SAS No. 134 was originally
issued, the amendments were intended to become effective for audits
of financial statements for periods ending on or after December 15,
2020 and early implementation was not permitted; however, in May 2020,
the AICPA issued SAS No. 141, .
      <emphasis role="italic">Amendment to
the Effective Dates of SAS Nos. 134–140</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>SAS
No. 141 delays the effective dates of SAS Nos. 134–140, and the amendments
to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140, from December 15, 2020 to
December 15, 2021, in order to provide more time for firms to implement
these SASs in light of the effect of the coronavirus pandemic. SAS
Nos. 134, 136–137, and 139–140, as originally issued, do not permit
early implementation; however, SAS No. 141 amends these SASs to no
longer preclude early implementation. </para>
    <para>SAS Nos. 134 and
136–140 are interrelated because the Auditing Standards Board (ASB)
amended the auditor reporting model adopted in SAS No. 134 with the
issuance of the subsequent SASs. The effective dates were aligned
so that these SASs would be implemented as a suite, primarily to accommodate
the amendments to the auditor reporting model. Accordingly, the ASB
recommends that all of these SASs be implemented concurrently. SAS
No. 141 was effective upon issuance.</para>
  </paraBlock>
  <section id="aag-afi6_reliance_on_the_work" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Reliance on the Work of the Specialist</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Reliance on the Work of the Specialist</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi6_15" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.15</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.15</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        The auditor should not refer to the work
of an auditor’s specialist in an auditor’s report containing an unmodified
opinion. Reference to the specialist might be misunderstood to
be a modification of the auditor’s opinion or division of responsibility,
neither of which is intended. 
        <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn11" label="fn 11" role="number">
          <para>
            Paragraph .14 of AU-C section 620B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Using the Work of an Auditor’s Specialist</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_16" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.16</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.16</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Circumstances may arise as a result of
the valuation report or findings of the specialist wherein the auditor
decides to modify the auditor’s report on the financial statements.
Reference to, and identification of, the specialist may be made in
the auditor’s report if, in the auditor’s judgment, the reference
will facilitate an understanding of the reason for the modified opinion.
In that circumstance, the auditor is required to indicate in the auditor’s
report that such reference does not reduce the auditor’s responsibility
for that opinion.
        <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn12" label="fn 12" role="number">
          <para>Paragraph .15 of AU-C section 620B.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_17" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.17</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.17</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Situations may arise in which an entity
lacks the sophistication to perform its own valuation. For example,
an acquiring entity may refuse to engage a valuation specialist and
makes its own estimate of the fair value of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed. In those circumstances, the auditor may recommend
that the acquiring entity engage a qualified independent valuation
specialist. If, in the auditor’s judgment, the valuation is not properly
prepared, it may not provide sufficient audit evidence in support
of the amounts assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
AU-C section 705B describes the implications of the auditor’s inability
to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. See  for additional
guidance.
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi6_18">paragraphs 6.18–.21</olink>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_modifications_to_the_auditors" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Modifications to the Auditor’s Report</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Modifications to the Auditor’s Report</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi6_18" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>6.18</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">6.18</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">AU-C section 705B addresses how the form
and content of the auditor’s report are affected when the auditor
expresses a modified opinion (a qualified opinion, an adverse opinion,
or a disclaimer of opinion).</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_scope_limitations" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Scope Limitations</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Scope Limitations</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_19" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.19</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.19</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s objective is to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence to provide a reasonable basis for forming
an opinion. There are often significant challenges to management obtaining
sufficient information to support its assertions relevant to financial
instruments, and auditors will face similar challenges in obtaining
audit evidence and evaluating its sufficiency. The amounts and types
of audit evidence necessary to support an opinion are matters for
the auditor to determine in the exercise of his or her professional
judgment after careful study of the particular circumstances. In evaluating
audit evidence, the auditor may consider whether the specific audit
objectives have been met. The consideration might include such factors
as</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>the significance of the financial instruments for
which neither the underlying detail nor audited financial statements
were available as of the balance sheet date.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the adequacy of management’s process and related internal
control.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>timeliness of the estimated fair value of the underlying
financial instruments.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_20" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.20</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.20</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s justification for the expression
of his or her opinion rests on the conformity of the audit with generally
accepted auditing standards (GAAS). When a significant amount of financial
instruments are stated at estimated fair value, the auditor may consider
both the uncertainties inherent in the financial instrument valuations
and the extent of audit evidence supporting those valuations. The
assessment of reasonableness of valuations considers their effects
on the financial statements as a whole, not solely the investment
caption in the financial statements. If the auditor is unable to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support the financial statement
assertions, it will be necessary to modify an opinion on the financial
statements due to a scope limitation. </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_21" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.21</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.21</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Scope limitations related to sufficiency
of evidence are different from situations in which the auditor concludes
that the financial statements are materially misstated due to departures
from the applicable financial reporting framework related to inadequate
disclosure of uncertainties inherent in the financial instrument valuations,
failure to apply a valuation method required by the applicable financial
reporting framework, or valuations that are not supported or reasonable.
If the potential effect of the applicable financial reporting framework
departure is material to the investor entity’s financial statements
as a whole, the auditor is required to issue a qualified opinion or
an adverse opinion, as described in paragraph .09 of AU-C section
705B.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_departures_from_the_applicable" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Departures From the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Departures From the Applicable Financial
Reporting Framework</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_22" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.22</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.22</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          After performing the audit procedures,
including evaluating the findings of the valuation specialist, the
auditor may conclude that management’s assertions in the financial
statements about the identification or estimate of fair value are
not presented or measured in accordance with applicable the financial
reporting framework. This situation could arise from unresolved differences
of opinion over the appropriateness of the valuation method or the
reasonableness of the significant valuation assumptions. When financial
statements are materially affected by a departure from the applicable
financial reporting framework, and the auditor has performed an audit
in accordance with GAAS, the auditor should issue a qualified or an
adverse opinion on the financial statements.
          <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn13" label="fn 13" role="number">
            <para>
              Paragraphs .08–.10 of AU-C section 705B, .
              <emphasis role="italic">Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_voluntary_disclosures_regarding_fair" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Voluntary Disclosures Regarding Fair Value Information</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Voluntary Disclosures Regarding Fair
Value Information</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi6_reporting_on_fair_value" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>
          Reporting on Fair Value Information Not Required by FASB
ASC 825, , Presented as
a Complete Balance Sheet Presentation or a Specific Element of a Financial
Statement
          <emphasis>Financial Instruments</emphasis>
        </titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">
          Reporting on Fair Value Information
Not Required by FASB ASC 825, , Presented as a Complete Balance Sheet Presentation or a Specific
Element of a Financial Statement
          <emphasis>Financial Instruments</emphasis>
        </title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_23" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.23</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.23</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Paragraph .19 of AU-C section 540B states
that the auditor should obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence
about whether the disclosures in the financial statements related
to accounting estimates are in accordance with the requirements of
the applicable financial reporting framework. The presentation of
financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework includes adequate disclosure of material matters. The applicable
financial reporting framework may permit or prescribe disclosures
relating to accounting estimates, including fair value accounting
estimates, and some entities may disclose voluntarily additional information
in the notes to the financial statements. If such voluntary additional
information is presented as part of the basic financial statements,
in accordance with paragraph .59 of AU-C section 700B, , such information should be covered by the auditor’s opinion if
it cannot be clearly differentiated.
          <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_reporting_on_additional" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Reporting on Additional, Voluntary Fair Value Information
Presented as a Complete Balance Sheet Presentation or a Specific Element
of a Financial Statement </titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Reporting on Additional, Voluntary
Fair Value Information Presented as a Complete Balance Sheet Presentation
or a Specific Element of a Financial Statement</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_24" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.24</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.24</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Voluntary disclosures regarding fair value
information may supplement required disclosures in such a manner as
to constitute either a complete balance sheet (the fair value of all
material items in the balance sheet) or a presentation of a specific
element, account, or item (element) of a financial statement. In such
cases, in conjunction with an engagement to audit the entity’s complete
set of financial statements, the auditor may undertake an engagement
to audit and report on a single financial statement or a specific
element of a financial statement in accordance with AU-C section 805B, .
          <emphasis role="italic">Special Considerations — Audits of Single Financial
Statements and Specific Elements, Accounts, or Items of a Financial
Statement</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_reporting_on_additonal_vol" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Reporting on Additional, Voluntary Fair Value Information
Presented as Supplementary Information in Relation to the Financial
Statements as a Whole </titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Reporting on Additional, Voluntary
Fair Value Information Presented as Supplementary Information in Relation
to the Financial Statements as a Whole </title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_25" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.25</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.25</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Voluntary disclosures regarding fair value
information also may be presented as supplementary information, and
the auditor may be engaged to report on whether the additional fair
value information is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation
to the financial statements as a whole in accordance with AU-C section
725B, .
          <emphasis role="italic">Supplementary Information in Relation
to the Financial Statements as a Whole</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_26" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.26</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.26</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">In accordance with paragraph .05 of AU-C
section 725B in order to opine as to whether the supplemental fair
value information is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation
to the financial statements as a whole, the auditor should determine
that all of the following conditions are met:</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>The supplementary information was derived from, and
relates directly to, the underlying accounting and other records used
to prepare the financial statements.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The supplementary information relates to the same
period as the financial statements.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The auditor issued an audit report on the financial
statements that contained neither an adverse opinion nor a disclaimer
of opinion. (Paragraph .11 of AU-C section 725B addresses reporting
while not opining on supplementary information when the report on
the financial statements contains an adverse opinion or a disclaimer
of opinion.)</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>The supplementary information will accompany the entity’s
audited financial statements, or such audited financial statements
will be made readily available by the entity.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_27" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.27</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.27</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          AU-C section 725B requires the auditor
to report on the additional fair value information in either () an other-matter paragraph in accordance
with AU-C section 706B, , or () in a
separate report on the voluntary information.
          <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">Emphasis-of-Matter
Paragraphs and Other-Matter Paragraphs in the Independent Auditor’s
Report</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_reporting_on_additional_fair" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Reporting on Additional, Fair Value Information Presented
as Unaudited Information</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Reporting on Additional, Fair Value
Information Presented as Unaudited Information</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_28" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.28</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.28</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          In some cases, the auditor is not engaged
to report on the voluntary disclosures regarding fair value information,
and accordingly, such additional disclosures are ordinarily labeled
as unaudited to clearly differentiate them from the audited financial
statements. The auditor may, but is not required to, include an other-matter
paragraph in the auditor’s report on the financial statements to disclaim
an opinion on the additional fair value information in accordance
with paragraph .A2 of AU-C section 720B, .
          <emphasis role="italic">Other
Information in Documents Containing Audited Financial Statements</emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_other_relevant_audit_considerations" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Other Relevant Audit Considerations</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Other Relevant Audit Considerations</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi6_written_representations" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Written Representations</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Written Representations</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_29" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.29</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.29</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Paragraph .16 of AU-C section 580B, , requires the auditor
to obtain written representations from management and, when appropriate,
those charged with governance about whether they believe significant
assumptions used in making accounting estimates are reasonable. AU-C
section 580B also states that written representations from management
do not provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence on their own
about any of the matters with which they deal. If the auditor is otherwise
unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, this may constitute
a limitation on the scope of the audit that may have implications
for the auditor’s report. (See AU-C section 705B.) 
          <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
          <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn14" label="fn 14" role="number">
            <para>
              See .
              <olink role="footnote" targetptr="aag-afi6_fn13">footnote
13</olink>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_30" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.30</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.30</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraph .19 of AU-C section 580B requires
that if, in addition to such required representations, the auditor
determines it is necessary to obtain one or more written representations
to support other audit evidence relevant to the financial statements
or one or more specific assertions in the financial statements, the
auditor should request such other written representations. Depending
on the volume and degree of complexity of financial instrument activities,
written representations to support other evidence obtained about financial
instruments may also include</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>management’s objectives with respect to financial
instruments (for example, whether they are used for hedging, asset
or liability management, or investment purposes).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>representations about the appropriateness of the presentation
of the financial statements (for example, the recording of financial
instrument transactions as sales or financing transactions).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>representations about the financial statement disclosures
concerning financial instruments (for example, that the records reflect
all financial instrument transactions, and all embedded derivative
instruments have been identified).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>whether all transactions have been conducted at arm’s
length and market value.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the terms of transactions.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the appropriateness of the valuations of financial
instruments.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>whether any side agreements associated with any financial
instruments exist.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>whether the entity has entered into any written options.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              management’s intent and ability to carry out certain
actions. 
              <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn15" label="fn 15" role="number">
                <para>Paragraph .A82 of AU-C section 540B provides examples of procedures
that may be appropriate in the circumstances.</para>
              </footnote>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>whether subsequent events require adjustment to the
valuations and disclosures included in the financial statements.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_communication_with_those_charged" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Communication With Those Charged With Governance and
Others</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Communication With Those Charged With
Governance and Others</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_31" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.31</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.31</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Because of the uncertainties associated
with the valuation of financial instruments, the potential effects
on the financial statements of any significant risks are likely to
be of governance interest. The auditor may communicate the nature
and consequences of significant assumptions used in fair value measurements,
the degree of subjectivity involved in the development of the assumptions,
and the relative materiality of the items being measured at fair value
to the financial statements as a whole. In addition, the need for
appropriate controls over commitments to enter into financial instrument
contracts and the subsequent measurement processes are matters that
may give rise to the need for communication with those charged with
governance.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi6_32" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.32</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.32</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">AU-C section 260B addresses the auditor’s
responsibility to communicate with those charged with governance in
an audit of financial statements. With respect to financial instruments,
matters to be communicated to those charged with governance may include</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">The appropriate timing for communications
will vary with the circumstances of the engagement; however, it may
be appropriate to communicate significant difficulties encountered
during the audit as soon as practicable if those charged with governance
are able to assist the auditor to overcome the difficulty or if it
is likely to lead to a modified opinion.</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>a lack of management understanding of the nature or
extent of the financial instrument activities or the risks associated
with such activities.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in
the design or operation of the system of internal control relating
to the entity’s financial instrument activities that the auditor has
identified during the audit.
              <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn16" label="fn 16" role="number">
                <para>
                  AU-C section 265B, , addresses
the auditor’s responsibility to communicate to those charged with
governance and management deficiencies in internal control that the
auditor has identified in an audit of financial statements. It explains
that deficiencies in internal control may be identified during the
auditor’s risk assessment procedures, in accordance with AU-C section
315B, , or at
any other stage of the audit.
                  <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Internal
Control Related Matters Identified in an Audit</emphasis>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment
and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
                </para>
              </footnote>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>significant difficulties encountered when obtaining
sufficient appropriate audit evidence relating to valuations performed
by management or management’s specialist (for example, when management
is unable to obtain an understanding of the valuation methodology,
assumptions, and data used by management’s specialists, and such information
is not made available to the auditor by management’s specialist).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>significant differences in judgments between the auditor
and management or management’s specialist regarding valuations.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the potential effects on the entity’s financial statements
of material risks and exposures required to be disclosed in the financial
statements, including the measurement uncertainty associated with
financial instruments.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the auditor’s views about the appropriateness of the
selection of accounting policies and presentation of financial instrument
transactions in the financial statements.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the auditor’s views about the qualitative aspects
of the entity’s accounting practices and financial reporting for financial
instruments.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>a lack of comprehensive and clearly stated policies
for the purchase, sale, and holding of financial instruments, including
operational controls, procedures for designating financial instruments
as hedges, and monitoring exposures.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi6_communications_with_regulators_and" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Communications With Regulators and Others</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Communications With Regulators and
Others</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi6_33" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>6.33</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">6.33</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          In some cases, auditors may be required, or may consider it appropriate, to communicate directly
with regulators or others, in addition to those charged with governance,
regarding matters relating to financial instruments. Such communication
may be useful throughout the audit. For example, when required to
communicate with banking regulators, such regulators may share information
with the auditor about the operation and application of controls over
financial instrument activities, challenges in valuing financial instruments
in inactive markets, and compliance with regulations. This sharing
of information may be helpful to the auditor in identifying risks
of material misstatement.
          <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn17" label="fn 17" role="number">
            <para>
              For example, AU-C section 250B, , requires auditors to determine whether there is a responsibility
to report identified or suspected noncompliance with laws and regulations
to parties outside the entity. In addition, requirements concerning
the auditor’s communication to banking supervisors and others may
be established in many countries by law, supervisory requirement,
or formal agreement or protocol.
              <emphasis role="italic">Consideration
of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>