<root id="aag-afi6_communication_with_those_charged" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Communication With Those Charged With Governance and
Others</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Communication With Those Charged With
Governance and Others</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi6_31" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.31</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.31</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Because of the uncertainties associated
with the valuation of financial instruments, the potential effects
on the financial statements of any significant risks are likely to
be of governance interest. The auditor may communicate the nature
and consequences of significant assumptions used in fair value measurements,
the degree of subjectivity involved in the development of the assumptions,
and the relative materiality of the items being measured at fair value
to the financial statements as a whole. In addition, the need for
appropriate controls over commitments to enter into financial instrument
contracts and the subsequent measurement processes are matters that
may give rise to the need for communication with those charged with
governance.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_32" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.32</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.32</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">AU-C section 260B addresses the auditor’s
responsibility to communicate with those charged with governance in
an audit of financial statements. With respect to financial instruments,
matters to be communicated to those charged with governance may include</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">The appropriate timing for communications
will vary with the circumstances of the engagement; however, it may
be appropriate to communicate significant difficulties encountered
during the audit as soon as practicable if those charged with governance
are able to assist the auditor to overcome the difficulty or if it
is likely to lead to a modified opinion.</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>a lack of management understanding of the nature or
extent of the financial instrument activities or the risks associated
with such activities.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in
the design or operation of the system of internal control relating
to the entity’s financial instrument activities that the auditor has
identified during the audit.
          <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn16" label="fn 16" role="number">
            <para>
              AU-C section 265B, , addresses
the auditor’s responsibility to communicate to those charged with
governance and management deficiencies in internal control that the
auditor has identified in an audit of financial statements. It explains
that deficiencies in internal control may be identified during the
auditor’s risk assessment procedures, in accordance with AU-C section
315B, , or at
any other stage of the audit.
              <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Internal
Control Related Matters Identified in an Audit</emphasis>
              <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment
and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>significant difficulties encountered when obtaining
sufficient appropriate audit evidence relating to valuations performed
by management or management’s specialist (for example, when management
is unable to obtain an understanding of the valuation methodology,
assumptions, and data used by management’s specialists, and such information
is not made available to the auditor by management’s specialist).</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>significant differences in judgments between the auditor
and management or management’s specialist regarding valuations.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the potential effects on the entity’s financial statements
of material risks and exposures required to be disclosed in the financial
statements, including the measurement uncertainty associated with
financial instruments.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the auditor’s views about the appropriateness of the
selection of accounting policies and presentation of financial instrument
transactions in the financial statements.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the auditor’s views about the qualitative aspects
of the entity’s accounting practices and financial reporting for financial
instruments.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>a lack of comprehensive and clearly stated policies
for the purchase, sale, and holding of financial instruments, including
operational controls, procedures for designating financial instruments
as hedges, and monitoring exposures.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
</root>