<root id="aag-afi9_auditing_considerations" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Auditing Considerations</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Auditing Considerations</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi9_description_of_the_entity" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Description of the Entity</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Description of the Entity</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <paraBlock role="ps_box">
      <para>
        <emphasis role="bold">
          Update 9-1  Audit Evidence
          <emphasis role="italic">Auditing:</emphasis>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>
        In July 2020, the AICPA issued , , which supersedes
AU-C section 500, , and amends the following AU-C sections:SAS No. 142 explains what constitutes audit evidence
in an audit of financial statements and sets out attributes of information
that are taken into account by the auditor when evaluating information
to be used as audit evidence.
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_500">Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) No. 142</olink>
        <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence</emphasis>
        <itemizedlist>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_315">Section 315</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment
and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_330">Section 330</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Performing Audit Procedures in Response
to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the Audit Evidence</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_530">Section 530</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Audit Sampling</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">Section 540</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including
Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </para>
      <para>
        This SAS is effective for
audits of financial statements for periods ending on or after December
15, 2022. A link to the final SAS and other resources can be found
on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org. 
        <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
      </para>
    </paraBlock>
    <paraBlock role="ps_box">
      <para>
        <emphasis role="bold">
          Update 9-2 : Auditing Accounting Estimates,
Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures
          <emphasis role="italic">Auditing</emphasis>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para>
        In July 2020, the AICPA issued , , which supersedes , , and amends
the following AU-C sections: SAS No. 143 addresses the auditor’s responsibilities
relating to accounting estimates, including fair value accounting
estimates and related disclosures, in an audit of financial statements. 
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540">SAS No. 143</olink>
        <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_540a">AU-C section 540</olink>
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing
Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value
Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
        <itemizedlist>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_200">Section 200</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor
and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_230">Section 230</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Audit Documentation</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_240">Section 240</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement
Audit</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_260">Section 260</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication With Those
Charged With Governance</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_501">Section 501</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Audit Evidence — Specific Considerations
for Selected Items</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_580">Section 580</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Written Representations</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_700">Section 700</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial
Statements</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              , 
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ad_701">Section 701</olink>
              <emphasis role="italic">Communicating Key Audit Matters in the
Independent Auditor’s Report</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </para>
      <para>
        This SAS is effective for audits of financial statements for
periods ending on or after December 15, 2023. A link to the final
SAS and other resources can be found on the page “,” which is available using the audit and attest
link in the financial reporting center at aicpa.org.
        <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/auditattest/auditing-standards-information-and-resources.html">Recently Issued Auditing and Attestation Standards: Information and
Resources</ulink>
      </para>
    </paraBlock>
    <section id="aag-afi9_13" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>9.13</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">9.13</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Although Martin has invested in financial
instruments in the past, it has not invested in a security with a
feature that constitutes an embedded derivative. However, Martin’s
board of directors exercises proper oversight and authorization of
all investing activities. In regard to the convertible bond investment,
the board took an active role in understanding the risks of the investment
and how it was priced and, ultimately, approving the transaction.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi9_14" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>9.14</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">9.14</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Martin also has other characteristics
of a strong control environment:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">The bonds are held and serviced by a well-known
bank with an investment department that is widely respected. </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Management has high integrity and ethical values.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Management philosophy and operating style are commensurate
with the demands and needs of a well-regarded business organization.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Management carefully assigns authority and responsibility
to appropriate personnel.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Human resource policies and procedures are designed
in a way that the most qualified individuals are attracted to the
organization, hired, trained, rewarded, and retained.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_summary_of_accounting" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Summary of Accounting</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Summary of Accounting</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi9_15" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>9.15</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">9.15</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Under FASB ASC 815, the convertible bonds
are hybrid instruments that should be separated into two components:
straight interest-bearing bonds and a conversion option. Each component
should be accounted for separately, with the bonds (the host contract)
accounted for as available-for-sale securities under FASB ASC 320
and the option accounted for as an embedded derivative under FASB
ASC 815. Martin estimates the fair value of the straight bonds by
subtracting the fair value of the embedded option from the basis of
the hybrid instrument.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_types_of_potential_misstatements" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Types of Potential Misstatements</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Types of Potential Misstatements</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi9_16" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>9.16</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">9.16</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">There could be departures from the recognition
measurement and disclosure requirements of FASB ASC 815 for the embedded
derivative instrument, such as</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">In addition, there is the risk of departures
from the measurement and disclosure requirements of FASB ASC 320 for
the straight bonds.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>a failure to identify the option and account for it
separately from the straight bond.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>errors in determining the fair values of the components
when allocating the purchase price and at subsequent measurement dates.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>errors in accounting for changes in fair value.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>inadequate presentation and disclosure in the financial
statements.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_inherent_risk_factors_to" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for This Transaction
in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Inherent Risk Factors to Consider for
This Transaction in Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi9_17" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>9.17</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">9.17</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The risk factors the auditor considered
are</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">Estimating the fair value of the option requires
judgment in applying an option-pricing model and determining the underlying
assumptions. Based on the preceding factors, the auditor determines
inherent risk to be high.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>the option may not be identified because it is a feature
of the convertible bonds.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>due to the lack of experience of Martin’s accounting
personnel with this type of transaction, the option may not be accounted
for separately from the straight bonds. </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_control_risk" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Control Risk</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Control Risk</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi9_18" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>9.18</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">9.18</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Martin’s investing department has a history
of investing in debt and equity securities. Controls over the department’s
activities include</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>segregation of duties between purchase and sale transaction
authorization, bookkeeping, and custody.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>reasonably good management oversight.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>supervisory personnel in the department review ongoing
fair value calculations prepared internally and provided by third
parties, mark-to-market adjustments, and related journal entries.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi9_19" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>9.19</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">9.19</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">However, the purchase of the convertible
bonds is the first transaction of this nature for Martin. Certain
risks associated with accounting for this instrument (for example,
the identification of, and separate accounting for, the embedded derivative
and use of the binomial option-pricing model) are not addressed by
Martin’s existing controls. Although some policies have been put in
place to monitor the status of the convertible bonds, the policies
have not been functioning long enough to determine their effectiveness.
For these reasons, control risk is assessed as high.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_timing_of_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Timing of Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Timing of Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi9_20" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>9.20</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">9.20</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The relevant assertions associated with
this transaction will be substantively tested at year-end. This decision
is influenced by the assessment of control risk as high, the fact
that this is an isolated transaction, and the design of the substantive
procedures subsequently discussed. </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_materiality" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Materiality</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Materiality</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi9_21" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>9.21</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">9.21</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The convertible bonds are considered to
be material to the financial statements.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi9_design_of_procedures" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Design of Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Design of Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi9_22" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>9.22</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">9.22</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        The auditor defined the following objectives
and related procedures for the audit of assertions about the convertible
bonds:
        <footnote id="aag-afi9_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
          <para>In this case study, the entity properly accounted for the embedded
derivative. However, if the entity had not separately accounted for
the embedded derivative, the auditor could have detected it by reading
the agreements supporting the bonds.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <table frame="all" id="aag-afi9_table5" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.96in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="2.99in"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Audit Objective </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Procedure</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The hybrid instrument was purchased during the reporting period
and exists at the end of the reporting period.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Examine the broker’s advice for the purchase and Martin,
Inc.’s (Martin’s) canceled check or other evidence of Martin’s cash
disbursement. </para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>At year-end, confirm existence, rights and obligations,
and the description of the convertible bonds with the custodian bank
that serves as safekeeping agent. </para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The hybrid instrument was executed according to management’s
authorizations.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Compare the terms of the convertible bonds with the
investment guidelines approved by the board of directors.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Examine signed authorization by the CFO.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The straight bonds and option were properly accounted for separately. </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>
                      Read the underlying agreement, and compare its provisions
with the separation criteria prescribed by paragraphs 2–3 of FASB  (ASC) 815-15-25.
                      <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
                    </para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Both the host instrument and option are measured using appropriate
fair values.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>
                      Compare the fair values of the convertible bonds and
similar straight bonds with quoted prices published in the 
                      <emphasis role="italic">Wall Street Journal.</emphasis>
                    </para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Ensure that total fair value of the separate components
does not exceed the fair value of the convertible bonds.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Test the fair value calculation of the option by one
of the following:</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
                <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_2">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Testing management’s calculation and underlying assumptions</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Reperforming the calculation</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>
                      Engaging a specialist to recompute the value in accordance
with the guidance provided in AU-C section 620B, .
                      <emphasis role="italic">Using the Work of an Auditor’s Specialist</emphasis>
                    </para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Ensure that the changes in fair value of the host
contract and embedded derivative are properly recorded in comprehensive
income and income, respectively.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Interest income has been properly recorded.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Perform analytical procedures to test the reasonableness
of interest income, including amortization of the original discount.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Presentation is appropriate and disclosure adequate.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Compare the presentation and disclosure with the requirements
of FASB ASC 320 and 815.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>