<root id="aag-afi_appF_effective_date7" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Effective Date</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Effective Date</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
     The amendments related to
issues 1, 2, 4, and 5 are conforming amendments. For public business
entities, the amendments are effective upon issuance of this ASU.
For all other entities, the amendments are effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020. Early application
is permitted.
    <emphasis role="italic">Issues 1, 2, 3, 4,
and 5: Conforming amendments.</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">The amendment related to issue 3 is a conforming
amendment that affects the guidance in the amendments in ASU No. 2019-04.
That guidance relates to the amendments in ASU No. 2016-01. The effective
date of ASU No. 2019-04 for the amendments to ASU No. 2016-01 is for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim
periods within those fiscal years.</para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    . The amendments related to issues 6
and 7 affect the guidance in the amendments in ASU No. 2016-13. The
effective date of ASU No. 2016-13 varies depending on the type of
entity. For entities that have not yet adopted the guidance in ASU
No. 2016-13, the effective dates and the transition requirements for
these amendments are the same as the effective date and transition
requirements in ASU No. 2016-13.
    <emphasis role="italic">Issues 6 and 7: Amendments
to ASU No. 2016-13</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">For entities that have adopted the guidance
in ASU No. 2016-13, the amendments are effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within
those fiscal years.</para>
</root>