<root id="aag-afi1_26" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>1.26</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">1.26</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">
    Some financial reporting frameworks establish
a fair value hierarchy to develop increased consistency and comparability
in fair value measurements and related disclosures. The inputs may be classified into different levels, such
as
    <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
      <para>FASB ASC 820-10-35-37 notes that the fair value hierarchy categorizes
into three levels the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure
fair value. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to
quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets
or liabilities and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs. </para>
    </footnote>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">In general, measurement uncertainty increases
as a financial instrument moves from level 1 to level 2 or level 2
to level 3. Also, within level 2, there may be a wide range of measurement
uncertainty depending on the observability of inputs, the complexity
and valuation of the financial instrument, and other factors.</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        ,
which are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
financial assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the
measurement date.
        <emphasis role="italic">level 1 inputs</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        ,
which are inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1
that are observable for the financial asset or liability either directly
or indirectly. If the financial asset or liability has a specified
(contractual) term, a level 2 input must be observable for substantially
the full term of the financial asset or liability. Level 2 inputs
include the following:
        <emphasis role="italic">level 2 inputs</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>Quoted prices for similar financial assets or liabilities
in active markets</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Quoted prices for identical or similar financial assets
or liabilities in markets that are not active</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable
for the financial asset or liability (for example, interest rates
and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals, implied
volatilities, and credit spreads)</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>Inputs that are derived principally from, or corroborated
by, observable market data by correlation or other means (market-corroborated
inputs)</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        ,
which are unobservable inputs for the financial asset or liability.
Unobservable inputs are used to measure fair value to the extent that
relevant observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for
situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the
financial asset or liability at the measurement date.
        <emphasis role="italic">level 3 inputs</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>