<root id="aag-afi8_scenario_c" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Scenario C — Discretionary Investing Arrangement With
One Service Organization: a Broker-Dealer</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Scenario C — Discretionary Investing
Arrangement With One Service Organization: a Broker-Dealer</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi8_22" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>8.22</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">8.22</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">In this scenario, the broker-dealer initiates
trades under a discretionary arrangement with Lane and also executes
the trades and holds and services the financial instruments purchased.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_the_understanding_of_processes2" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>The Understanding of Processes and Controls the Auditor
Needs to Assess the Risks of Material Misstatements</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Understanding of Processes and Controls
the Auditor Needs to Assess the Risks of Material Misstatements</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_23" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.23</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.23</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In order to plan the audit, the auditor
obtains the following understanding of processes and controls:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>The broker-dealer initiates trades within parameters
set by Lane and also executes the trades.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The broker-dealer sends a confirmation of each trade
to Lane, which Lane usually receives within three business days.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Lane records the trade in the applicable general ledger
accounts when it receives the trade confirmation.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Monthly, the broker-dealer sends Lane a statement
that includes trades, servicing transactions, a description of the
financial instruments held, and the fair value of each of those financial
instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Monthly, Lane compares the information about trades
and the components of its financial instruments’ portfolio that are
shown in its accounting records with the broker-dealer’s monthly statement
and investigates significant differences.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Monthly, Lane records servicing transactions and changes
in unrealized holding gains and losses based on information in the
broker-dealer’s monthly statement. Lane compares the broker-dealer
information with its expectations based on published information and
investigates significant differences.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi8_24" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.24</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.24</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Following the guidance in AU-C section
402B, the auditor concludes the following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Initiating trades, servicing financial instruments,
and providing fair value information are broker-dealer services that
are part of Lane’s information system.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The broker-dealer’s execution of trades and holding
of securities are not part of Lane’s information system.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi8_25" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.25</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.25</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">With respect to whether obtaining an understanding
of the broker-dealer’s controls is necessary to plan the audit, the
auditor concludes one of the following:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_2">
        Based on available information, the auditor
believes the broker-dealer has such controls.
        <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
          <para>To help plan the audit, the auditor may gather information about
broker-dealer controls over existence and completeness assertions
from a variety of sources. Examples are a service auditor’s type 1
or type 2 SOC 1 report, manuals provided by the broker-dealer, and
inquiries of broker-dealer personnel.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_2">Accordingly, obtaining an understanding of
the broker-dealer’s controls over those services is not necessary
to plan the audit.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Because the broker-dealer initiates and executes trades,
all the information about trades that is available to Lane comes from
the broker-dealer. Accordingly, the broker-dealer’s controls over
the initiation of trades are significant to Lane’s internal control
over financial instrument transactions. Information about the manner
in which trades are initiated by the broker-dealer, as well as the
broker-dealer’s controls over that process, is needed to plan the
audit. The auditor decides that an effective broker-dealer control
over initiation of trades would be both of the following:</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>Establishing independent departments that provide
the investment advisory services and the holding and servicing of
financial instruments</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Reconciling the information about the financial instruments
that is provided by each department</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>The broker-dealer’s controls over servicing financial
instruments and providing fair value information are not significant
to Lane’s internal control over financial instrument transactions
because Lane does both of the following:</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>Compares broker-dealer information about servicing
and fair values with its expectations based on published information</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Investigates significant differences</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_the_auditors_assessment_of2" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>The Auditor’s Assessment of Control Risk</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Auditor’s Assessment of Control Risk</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_26" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.26</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.26</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        As discussed in paragraph .A7 of AU-C
section 402B, the significance of the controls at the service organization
to the user entity’s internal control also depends on the degree of
interaction between the service organization’s activities and those
of the user entity. The degree of interaction refers to the extent
to which a user entity is able to and elects to implement effective
controls over the processing performed by the service organization.
For example, a high degree of interaction exists between the activities
of the user entity and those at the service organization when the
user entity authorizes transactions, and the service organization
processes and accounts for those transactions. In these circumstances,
it may be practicable for the user entity to implement effective controls
over those transactions. On the other hand, when the service organization
initiates or initially records, processes, and accounts for the user
entity’s transactions, a lower degree of interaction exists between
the two organizations. In these circumstances, the user entity may
be unable to or may elect not to implement effective controls over
these transactions at the user entity and may rely on controls at
the service organization. In this arrangement, when the broker-dealer
both initiates and executes trades, the broker-dealer provides all
the information about trades that is available to the auditor. In
addition, the broker-dealer’s initiation and execution services are
largely provided electronically. Accordingly, the auditor concludes
that audit risk cannot be limited sufficiently without obtaining the
following audit evidence about the operating effectiveness of the
broker-dealer’s controls:
        <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
          <para>As a practical matter, Lane’s management should view information
about the operating effectiveness of the broker-dealer’s controls
as an important part of its risk management considerations.</para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Establishing independent departments that provide
the investment advisory services and the holding and servicing of
financial instruments</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Reconciling the information about the financial instruments
that is provided by each department</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi8_27" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.27</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.27</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">If the audit evidence about the operating
effectiveness of these controls supports an assessment of control
risk as low or moderate, the auditor may be able to reduce the number
of trades tested. The resulting audit efficiencies will become more
noticeable as the number of trades increases.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_the_auditors_design_of2" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>The Auditor’s Design of Procedures</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Auditor’s Design of Procedures</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_28" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.28</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.28</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        The auditor gathers audit evidence that
the broker-dealer has implemented the controls described in  and that those controls
are operating effectively. The auditor then identifies the objectives for the audit
of assertions about financial instruments and financial instrument
transactions and designs related procedures:
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_23">paragraph 8.23</olink>
        <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
          <para>The audit evidence can be obtained a variety of ways, such as
a type 2 service auditor’s report or special procedures performed
by the broker-dealer’s internal or external auditors.</para>
        </footnote>
        <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
          <para>
            In  and , the auditor
concludes that audit risk can be reduced to an acceptable level without
identifying controls placed in operation and gathering evidential
matter about their operating effectiveness. In this scenario, however,
the auditor concludes that identifying broker-dealer controls over
the existence and completeness assertions and gathering evidential
matter about their operating effectiveness is necessary to reduce
audit risk to an acceptable level. The only difference in the nature
of substantive procedures is that in this scenario, analytical procedures
are the only procedures performed to determine whether all the securities
that Lane owns and all its securities transactions have been recorded.
However, in  and , reconciliation
procedures are also performed.
            <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_a">scenarios A</olink>
            <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_b">B</olink>
            <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_a">scenarios A</olink>
            <olink targetptr="aag-afi8_scenario_b">B</olink>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <table frame="all" id="aag-afi8_table3" role="ps_table_center">
        <title/>
        <tgroup align="left" cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="2.97in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="2.99in"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <emphasis role="bold">Audit Objective </emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">
                    <emphasis role="bold">Procedure</emphasis>
                  </emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The recorded securities exist, and Lane has the rights and obligations
associated with ownership of the recorded financial instruments.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Confirm with the broker-dealer the name of the investee,
the number of shares, whether the shares are pledged, and that Lane
is the owner.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The recorded financial instrument transactions occurred.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Inspect supporting documentation, such as trade confirmations
or entries in the broker-dealer’s monthly statements.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>All the financial instruments that Lane owns and all its financial
instrument transactions have been recorded.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Perform analytical procedures on dividends and realized
and unrealized gains and losses.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The financial instruments are recorded at their fair value,
determined by following the requirements of FASB ASC 320.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Obtain the per-share price quoted by the exchange
at the balance sheet date and compare the quoted price with the price
that Lane used.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Test the extension of the number of shares at the
quoted price.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Realized and unrealized holding gains and losses are properly
reported as earnings or other comprehensive income.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Evaluate management’s considerations in ensuring that
the requirements of FASB ASC 320 were satisfied.</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Review journal entries for propriety.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>The financial instruments are properly classified.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Gather audit evidence about the classification of
the financial instruments as available for sale.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <para>Disclosures about financial instruments and financial instrument
transactions are adequate.</para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="left" colsep="1" rowsep="1" valign="top">
                <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_0">
                  <listitem>
                    <para>Read the financial statements, and compare the disclosures
about financial instruments and financial instrument transactions
with the requirements of FASB ASC 320-10-50.</para>
                  </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_performing_audit_procedures_in" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Performing Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed Risk</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Performing Audit Procedures in Response
to Assessed Risk</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_29" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.29</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.29</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">External confirmation procedures frequently
may be relevant when addressing assertions associated with account
balances and their elements but need not be restricted to these items.
For example, the auditor may request external confirmation of the
terms of agreements, contracts, or transactions between an entity
and other parties. External confirmation procedures also may be performed
to obtain audit evidence about the absence of certain conditions.
For example, a request may specifically seek confirmation that no
side agreement exists that may be relevant to an entity’s revenue
cut-off assertion.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi_audit_considerations_relating_to" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity Using a Service
Organization</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity
Using a Service Organization</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi8_30" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>8.30</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">8.30</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In determining the nature and extent of
audit evidence to be obtained for financial statement balances representing
assets held or transactions processed by a service organization for
a user entity, the following procedures may be considered by the user
auditor:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        . The reliability
of this source of evidence is determined by the nature and extent
of the accounting records and supporting documentation retained by
the user entity. In some cases, the user entity may not maintain independent
detailed records or documentation of specific transactions undertaken
on its behalf. 
        <emphasis role="italic">
          a.Inspecting
records and documents held by the user entity
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        .
The user auditor’s access to the records of the service organization
may be established as part of the contractual arrangements between
the user entity and service organization. The user auditor may also
use another auditor on its behalf to gain access to the user entity’s
records maintained by the service organization or may ask the service
organization through the user entity for access to the user entity’s
records maintained by the service organization.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          b.Inspecting
records and documents held by the service organization
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        . When the user entity maintains independent records of balances
and transactions, confirmation from the service organization corroborating
those records usually constitutes reliable audit evidence concerning
the existence of the transactions and assets concerned. For example,
when multiple service organizations are used, such as an investment
manager and a custodian, and these service organizations maintain
independent records, the user auditor may confirm balances with these
organizations in order to compare this information with the independent
records of the user entity. If the user entity does not maintain independent
records, information obtained in confirmations from the service organization
is merely a statement of what is reflected in the records maintained
by the service organization. Therefore, such confirmations do not,
taken alone, constitute reliable audit evidence. In these circumstances,
the user auditor may consider whether an alternative source of independent
evidence can be identified.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          c.Obtaining
confirmations of balances and transactions from the service organization
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi8_fn9" label="fn 9" role="number">
          <para>
            Paragraph .A27 of AU-C section 402B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Audit Considerations Relating to an Entity Using a Service Organization</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        . The effectiveness of analytical procedures is likely to vary by
assertion and will be affected by the extent and detail of information
available.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          d.Performing
analytical procedures on the records maintained by the user entity
or on the reports received from the service organization
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>