<root id="aag-afi4_analytical_procedures" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Analytical Procedures</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Analytical Procedures</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi4_29" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.29</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.29</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Analytical procedures are based on relationships
between data. The more predictable the relationships, the more precise
the auditor’s expectation of the financial statement account. The
value of many financial instruments can be highly volatile, making
valuation assertions about them ill-suited to testing via analytical
procedures. Additionally, the accounting for many financial instruments
is based on underlying assumptions that, oftentimes, are quite subjective.
Finally, the accounting for financial instruments may be highly dependent
on management’s intention. For example, the classification of debt
and equity securities depends on management’s ability and intent with
regard to holding those financial instruments. The accounting for
derivatives depends on management’s objectives in entering into those
financial instruments’ transactions.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_30" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.30</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.30</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">For these reasons, performing analytical
procedures alone may not sufficiently reduce audit risk for some assertions
about financial instruments. For example, analytical procedures would
not be effective in determining whether an embedded derivative has
been properly recognized in the financial statements or in evaluating
the fair value of a financial instrument whose value fluctuates greatly.
However, they may be effective in pointing out unrecorded derivatives,
such as interest rate swaps that contractually require no cash at
inception. For example, a difference from an expectation that interest
expense will be a fixed percentage of a note based on the interest
provisions of the underlying agreement may indicate the existence
of an interest rate swap agreement. Also, analytical procedures based
on expectations of relationships between income and assets may provide
some evidence about existence and completeness assertions.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_31" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.31</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.31</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Analytical procedures may also be effective
in corroborating the occurrence of income and expenses and, sometimes,
gains and losses associated with a financial instrument. For example,
the absence of a material difference from an expectation that interest
income will be a fixed percentage of a debt security based on the
effective interest rate when the entity purchased the security provides
evidence about the existence of the income (and the security). However,
auditors might consider that the income, expenses, gains, and losses
associated with a financial instrument may involve a complex interplay
of many factors. For example, if the fair value of a derivative is
derived from the interrelationship of exchange rates, interest rates,
rate differentials, or a combination of these, any attempts to develop
an expectation of a financial statement amount may be difficult.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_32" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.32</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.32</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Many of the auditor’s procedures can be
used to address a number of assertions. For example, procedures to
address the existence of an account balance at period-end will also
address the occurrence of a class of transactions and may also assist
in establishing proper cut-off because financial instruments arise
from legal contracts, and by verifying the accuracy of the recording
of the transaction, the auditor can also verify its existence and
obtain evidence to support the occurrence and rights and obligations
assertions at the same time and can confirm that transactions are
recorded in the correct accounting period. </para>
  </section>
</root>