<root id="aag-afi1" role="ls_level_2">
  <chapterinfo>
    <titleabbrev>Chapter 1 — Gaining an Understanding About Financial
Instruments</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_section_heading">Chapter 1</title>
    <subtitle role="ps_section_title">Gaining an Understanding About Financial
Instruments</subtitle>
  </chapterinfo>
  <para role="ps_box_shade">
    <emphasis role="italic">Gray shaded text
in this chapter reflects guidance issued but not yet effective as
of the date of this guide, September 1, 2020, but becoming effective
on or prior to December 31, 2020, exclusive of any option to early
adopt ahead of the mandatory effective date. Unless otherwise indicated,
all unshaded text reflects guidance that was already effective as
of the date of this guide.</emphasis>
  </para>
  <section id="aag-afi1_01" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.01</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.01</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Different definitions of  may exist among financial
reporting frameworks. For example, accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America define a  as cash, evidence of
an ownership interest in an entity, or a contract that both
      <emphasis role="italic">financial instruments</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">financial instrument</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      imposes on one entity a contractual obligation to either
      <emphasis role="italic">
        a.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
      i.deliver cash or another financial
instrument to a second entity
      <tab/>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
      ii.exchange other financial instruments
on potentially unfavorable terms with a second entity
      <tab/>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      conveys to that second entity a contractual right to either
      <emphasis role="italic">
        b.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
      i.receive cash or another financial
instrument from the first entity or
      <tab/>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
      ii.exchange other financial instruments
on potentially favorable terms with the first entity.
      <tab/>
      <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn1" label="fn 1" role="number">
        <para>
          The FASB  Master Glossary.
          <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">This definition encompasses a wide range
of financial instruments, from simple loans and deposits to complex
derivatives, structured products, and some commodity contracts.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_02" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.02</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.02</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Financial instruments vary in complexity,
though the complexity of the financial instrument can come from different
sources, such as</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">The higher the variability of cash flows
to changes in market conditions, the more likely the complexity and
uncertainty of the fair value measurement of the financial instrument.
In addition, sometimes, financial instruments that, ordinarily, are
relatively easy to value become complex to value because of particular
circumstances (for example, instruments for which the market has become
inactive or that have lengthy contractual terms). Derivatives and
structured products become more complex when they are a combination
of individual financial instruments. </para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>a very high volume of individual cash flows in which
a lack of homogeneity requires analysis of each one or a large number
of grouped cash flows to evaluate (for example, collateralized debt
obligations).</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>complex formulas for determining the cash flows.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>uncertainty or variability of future cash flows, such
as that arising from credit risk, volatility associated with option
contracts, or financial instruments with lengthy contractual terms.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_03" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>1.03</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">1.03</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">Another source of complexity is the volume
of financial instruments held or traded. Although a "plain vanilla"
interest rate swap may not be complex, an entity holding a large number
of them may use a sophisticated information system to identify, value,
and transact these instruments.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_purpose_and_risks_of" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Purpose and Risks of Using Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Purpose and Risks of Using Financial
Instruments</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_04" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.04</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.04</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Financial instruments may be used for</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>hedging purposes (for example, to change an existing
risk profile to which an entity is exposed). This includes</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>the forward purchase or sale of currency to fix a
future exchange rate.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>converting future interest rates to fixed rates or
floating rates through the use of swaps.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the purchase of option contracts to provide an entity
with protection against a particular price movement, including contracts
that may contain embedded derivatives.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>trading purposes (for example, to enable an entity
to take a risk position to benefit from short-term market movements).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>investment purposes (for example, to enable an entity
to benefit from long-term investment returns).</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_05" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.05</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.05</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The use of financial instruments can reduce
exposures to certain business risks (for example, changes in exchange
rates, interest rates, and commodity prices or a combination of those
risks). On the other hand, the inherent complexities of some financial
instruments also may result in increased risk.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_06" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.06</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.06</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Business risk and the risk of material misstatement increase when management
and those charged with governance
        <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
          <para>
             is defined
in paragraph .04 of AU-C section 315B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Business risk</emphasis>
            <emphasis role="italic">Understanding
the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks of Material
Misstatement</emphasis>
          </para>
          <para>
            All AU-C sections can be found in AICPA .
            <tab/>
            <emphasis role="italic">
              <olink targetdoc="ps" targetptr="ps">Professional Standards</olink>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>do not fully understand the risks of using financial
instruments and have insufficient skills and experience to manage
those risks.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>do not have the expertise to value them appropriately
in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>do not have sufficient controls in place over financial
instrument activities.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>inappropriately hedge risks or speculate.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_07" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.07</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.07</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Management’s failure to fully understand
the risks inherent in a financial instrument can have a direct effect
on management’s ability to manage these risks appropriately and may
ultimately threaten the viability of the entity.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_08" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.08</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.08</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The following are principal types of risk
applicable to financial instruments. This list is not meant to be
exhaustive, and different terminology may be used to describe these
risks or classify the components of individual risks:</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          is the
risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial
loss to another party by failing to discharge an obligation, and it
is often associated with default. Credit risk includes counterparty
risk and settlement risk, which are defined as follows:
        <emphasis role="bold">Credit (or counterparty)
risk. </emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Credit risk</emphasis>
        <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
          <para>
            See the FASB ASC Master Glossary for definitions of  for purposes of a hedged item
in a fair value hedge and a hedged transaction in a cash flow hedge. 
            <emphasis role="italic">credit risk</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          is the risk that
the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will
fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk comprises
currency risk, interest rate risk, and other price risk.
        <emphasis role="bold">Market risk. </emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Market risk</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Liquidity risk includes the risk of not being able to buy or sell
a financial instrument at an appropriate price in a timely manner
due to a lack of marketability for that financial instrument.
        <emphasis role="bold">Liquidity risk. </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
         Operational risk relates to the specific processing required for
financial instruments. Operational risk may increase as the complexity
of a financial instrument increases, and poor management of operational
risk may increase other types of risk. Operational risk includes the
risk
        <emphasis role="bold">Operational risk.</emphasis>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . Connotes the exposure to the aggregate credit risk posed by all
transactions with one counterparty.
            <emphasis role="italic">Counterparty risk</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            . The related exposure that a counterparty may fail to perform under
a contract after the end user has delivered funds or assets according
to its obligations. Settlement risk relates almost solely to over-the-counter
(OTC) contracts (that is, nonexchange-traded instruments). One method
for minimizing settlement risk is to enter into a master netting agreement
that allows the parties to offset all their related payable and receivable
positions at settlement.
            <emphasis role="italic">Settlement risk</emphasis>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>that confirmation and reconciliation controls are
inadequate, resulting in incomplete or inaccurate recording of financial
instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>that inappropriate documentation of transactions and
insufficient monitoring of these transactions exist.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>that transactions are incorrectly recorded, processed,
or risk managed and, therefore, do not reflect the economics of the
overall trade.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>that undue reliance is placed by staff on the accuracy
of valuation techniques without adequate review, and transactions
are, therefore, incorrectly valued, or their risk is improperly measured.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>that the use of financial instruments is not adequately
incorporated into the entity’s risk management policies and procedures.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal
processes and systems or from external events, including the risk
of fraud from both internal and external sources.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>that inadequate or nontimely maintenance of valuation
techniques used to measure financial instruments exist.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>that losses may result from a legal or regulatory
action that invalidates or otherwise precludes performance by the
end user or its counterparty under the terms of the contract or related
netting arrangements (that is, legal risk, which is a component of
operational risk). For example, legal risk could arise from insufficient
or incorrect documentation for the contract, an inability to enforce
a netting arrangement in bankruptcy, adverse changes in tax laws,
or statutes that prohibit entities from investing in certain types
of financial instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_09" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.09</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.09</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Other considerations relevant to risks
of using financial instruments include the risk</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>of fraud that may be increased if, for example, an
employee in a position to perpetrate a financial fraud understands
both the financial instruments and processes for accounting for them,
but management and those charged with governance have a lesser degree
of understanding.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            that master netting arrangements may not be properly reflected in the financial statements.
            <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
              <para>An entity that undertakes a number of financial instrument transactions
with a single counterparty may enter into a master netting arrangement
with that counterparty. Such an agreement provides for a single net
settlement of all financial instruments covered by the agreement in
the event of default of any one contract. See FASB ASC 815-10-45 for
information on offsetting amounts related to derivative instruments. </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>that some financial instruments may change between
being assets or liabilities during their term and that such change
may occur rapidly.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_controls_relating_to_financial" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Controls Relating to Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Controls Relating to Financial Instruments</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_10" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.10</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.10</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The extent of an entity’s use of financial
instruments and the degree of complexity of the instruments are important
determinants of the necessary level of sophistication of the entity’s
internal control. For example, smaller entities may use less structured
products and simple processes and procedures to achieve their objectives.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_11" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.11</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.11</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Often, it is the role of those charged
with governance to set the tone regarding, and approve and oversee
the extent of, the use of financial instruments, but it is management’s
role to manage and monitor the entity’s exposures to those risks.
Management and, when appropriate, those charged with governance are
also responsible for designing and implementing a system of internal
control to enable the preparation and fair presentation of financial
statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.
An entity’s internal control over financial instruments is more likely
to be effective when management and those charged with governance
have</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_2">
        , "Internal Control," of this guide provides examples of controls
that may exist in an entity that deals in a high volume of financial
instrument transactions.
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi3">Chapter 3</olink>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>established an appropriate control environment (for
example, active participation by those charged with governance in
controlling the use of financial instruments); a logical organizational
structure with clear assignment of authority and responsibility; and
appropriate human resource policies and procedures. In particular,
clear rules are needed on the extent to which those responsible for
financial instrument activities are permitted to act. Such rules take
into account any legal or regulatory restrictions on using financial
instruments. For example, certain public sector entities may not have
the power to conduct business using derivatives.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>established a risk management process relative to
the size of the entity and the complexity of its financial instruments.
(For example, in some entities, a formal risk management function
may exist.)</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>established information systems that provide those
charged with governance with an understanding of the nature of the
financial instrument activities and the associated risks, including
adequate documentation of transactions.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>designed, implemented, and documented a system of
internal control to</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
        <listitem>
          <para>provide reasonable assurance that the entity’s use
of financial instruments is within its risk management policies.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>properly present financial instruments in the financial
statements.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>ensure that the entity is in compliance with applicable
laws and regulations.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>monitor risk.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>established appropriate accounting policies, including
valuation policies, in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_12" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.12</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.12</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Key elements of risk management processes
and internal control relating to an entity’s financial instruments
include</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>setting an approach to define the amount of risk exposure
that the entity is willing to accept when engaging in financial instrument
transactions (this may be referred to as its "risk appetite"), including
policies for investing in financial instruments and the control framework
in which the financial instrument activities are conducted.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>establishing processes for the documentation and authorization
of new types of financial instrument transactions that consider the
accounting, regulatory, legal, financial, and operational risks that
are associated with such instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>processing financial instrument transactions, including
confirmation and reconciliation of cash and asset holdings to external
statements and the payments process.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>segregation of duties between those investing or trading
in the financial instruments and those responsible for processing,
valuing, and confirming such instruments. For example, a model development
function that is involved in assisting in pricing deals is less objective
than one that is functionally and organizationally separate from the
sales function.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>valuation processes and controls, including controls
over data obtained from third-party pricing sources.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>monitoring of controls.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_13" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.13</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.13</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The nature of risks often differs between
entities with a high volume and variety of financial instruments and
those with only a few financial instrument transactions. This results
in different approaches to internal control:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Often, an institution with a high volume of financial
instruments will have a dealing room-type environment in which there
are specialist traders and segregation of duties between those traders
and the administrative and support services (which refers to the operations
function that data checks trades that have been conducted, ensuring
that they are not erroneous and transacting the required transfers).
In such environments, the traders will often initiate contracts verbally
over the phone or via an electronic trading platform. Capturing relevant
transactions and accurately recording financial instruments in such
an environment is significantly more challenging than for an entity
with only a few financial instruments whose existence and completeness
often can be confirmed with a bank confirmation to a few banks.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>On the other hand, entities with only a small number
of financial instruments often do not have segregation of duties,
and access to the market is limited. In such cases, although it may
be easier to identify financial instrument transactions, a risk exists
that management may rely on a limited number of personnel, which may
increase the risk that unauthorized transactions may be initiated,
or transactions may not be recorded.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_completeness_accuracy_and_existence" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Completeness, Accuracy, and Existence</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Completeness, Accuracy, and Existence</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_14" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.14</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.14</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
         describe controls and processes that may be in place
in entities with a high volume of financial instrument transactions,
including those with trading rooms. By contrast, an entity that does
not have a high volume of financial instrument transactions may not
have these controls and processes but may instead confirm its transactions
with the counterparty or clearinghouse. Doing so may be relatively
straightforward in that the entity may only transact with one or two
counterparties.
        <olink targetptr="aag-afi1_15">Paragraphs
1.15–.23</olink>
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_trade_confirmations_and_clearinghouses" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Trade Confirmations and Clearinghouses</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Trade Confirmations and Clearinghouses</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_15" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.15</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.15</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Generally, the terms of financial instruments
are documented in legal agreements and confirmations exchanged between
counterparties. Clearinghouses serve to monitor the exchange of confirmations
by matching trades and settling them. A central clearinghouse is associated
with an exchange, and entities that clear through clearinghouses typically
have processes to manage the information delivered to the clearinghouse.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_16" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.16</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.16</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Not all transactions are settled through
such an exchange. In many other markets, an established practice of
agreeing the terms of transactions exists before settlement begins.
To be effective, this process needs to be run separately from those
who trade the financial instruments to minimize the risk of fraud.
In other markets, transactions are confirmed after settlement has
begun, and sometimes, confirmation backlogs result in settlement beginning
before all terms have been fully agreed. This presents additional
risk because the transacting entities need to rely on alternative
means of agreeing trades, such as the following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>Enforcing rigorous reconciliations between the records
of those trading the financial instruments and those settling them
(strong segregation of duties between the two are important), combined
with strong supervisory controls over those trading the financial
instruments to ensure the integrity of the transactions</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Reviewing summary documentation from counterparties
that highlights the key terms, even if the full terms have not been
agreed</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Thorough review of traders’ profits and losses to
ensure that they reconcile to what the administrative and support
services have calculated</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_reconciliations_with_banks_and" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Reconciliations With Banks and Custodians</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Reconciliations With Banks and Custodians</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_17" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.17</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.17</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Some components of financial instruments,
such as bonds and shares, may be held in separate depositories. In
addition, most financial instruments result in payments of cash at
some point, and often, these cash flows begin early in the contract’s
life. These cash payments and receipts will pass through an entity’s
bank account. Regular reconciliation of the entity’s records to external
banks’ and custodians’ records enables the entity to ensure that transactions
are properly recorded.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_18" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.18</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.18</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">It should be noted that not all financial
instruments result in a cash flow in the early stages of the contract’s
life or are capable of being recorded with an exchange or a custodian.
When this is the case, reconciliation processes will not identify
an omitted or inaccurately recorded trade, and confirmation controls
are more important. Even when such a cash flow is accurately recorded
in the early stages of an instrument’s life, this does not ensure
that all characteristics or terms of the instrument (for example,
the maturity or an early termination option) have been recorded accurately.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_19" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.19</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.19</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In addition, cash movements may be quite
small in the context of the overall size of the trade or the entity’s
own balance sheet and, therefore, may be difficult to identify. The
value of reconciliations is enhanced when finance or other administrative
and support services staff review entries in all general ledger accounts
to ensure that they are valid and supportable. This process will help
identify if the other side-to-cash entries relating to financial instruments
have not been properly recorded. Reviewing suspense and clearing accounts
is important, regardless of the account balance, because there may
be offsetting reconciling items in the account.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_20" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.20</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.20</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Reconciliation and confirmation controls
may be automated, and if so, adequate IT controls need to be in place
to support them. In particular, controls are needed to ensure that
data is completely and accurately picked up from external sources
(such as banks and custodians) and from the entity’s records and that
it is not tampered with before or during reconciliation. Controls
are also needed to ensure that the criteria on which entries are matched
are sufficiently restrictive to prevent inaccurate clearance of reconciling
items.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_other_controls_over_completeness" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Other Controls Over Completeness, Accuracy, and Existence</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Other Controls Over Completeness, Accuracy,
and Existence</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_21" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.21</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.21</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The complexity inherent in some financial
instruments means it will not always be obvious how they should be
recorded in the entity’s systems. In such cases, management may set
up control processes to monitor policies that prescribe how particular
types of transactions are measured, recorded, and accounted for. These
policies are typically established and reviewed in advance by suitably
qualified personnel who are capable of understanding the full effects
of the financial instruments being booked.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_22" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.22</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.22</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Some transactions may be cancelled or
amended after initial execution. Application of appropriate controls
relating to cancellation or amendment can mitigate the risks of material
misstatement due to fraud or error. In addition, an entity may have
a process in place to reconfirm trades that are cancelled or amended.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_23" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.23</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.23</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In financial institutions with a high
volume of trading, a senior employee typically reviews daily profits
and losses on individual traders’ books to evaluate whether they are
reasonable based on the employee’s knowledge of the market. Doing
so may enable management to determine that particular trades were
not completely or accurately recorded or may identify fraud by a particular
trader. It is important that transaction authorization procedures
exist that support the more senior review.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_valuation_of_financial_instruments" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Valuation of Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">Valuation of Financial Instruments</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_financial_reporting_requirements" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Financial Reporting Requirements</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Financial Reporting Requirements</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_24" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.24</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.24</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">In many financial reporting frameworks,
financial instruments, including embedded derivatives, are often measured
at fair value for the purpose of balance sheet presentation, calculating
gain or loss, or disclosure. In general, the objective of fair value
measurement is to arrive at the price at which an orderly transaction
to sell an asset or transfer a liability would take place between
market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions
(that is, at an exit price at the measurement date from the perspective
of the market participant that holds the asset or owes the liability).
In meeting this objective, all relevant available market information
is taken into account.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_25" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.25</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.25</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Fair value measurements of financial assets
and liabilities may arise both at the initial recording of transactions
and later when there are changes in value. Changes in fair value measurements
that occur over time may be treated in different ways under different
financial reporting frameworks. For example, such changes may be recorded
as gain or loss or in other comprehensive income. Also, depending
on the applicable financial reporting framework, the whole financial
instrument or only a component of it (for example, an embedded derivative
when it is separately accounted for) may be required to be measured
at fair value. , "Valuation
of Financial Instruments," of this guide provides further detailed
guidance on valuation of financial instruments.
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi5">Chapter 5</olink>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_26" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.26</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.26</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Some financial reporting frameworks establish
a fair value hierarchy to develop increased consistency and comparability
in fair value measurements and related disclosures. The inputs may be classified into different levels, such
as
          <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn5" label="fn 5" role="number">
            <para>FASB ASC 820-10-35-37 notes that the fair value hierarchy categorizes
into three levels the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure
fair value. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to
quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets
or liabilities and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs. </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">In general, measurement uncertainty increases
as a financial instrument moves from level 1 to level 2 or level 2
to level 3. Also, within level 2, there may be a wide range of measurement
uncertainty depending on the observability of inputs, the complexity
and valuation of the financial instrument, and other factors.</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,
which are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
financial assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the
measurement date.
              <emphasis role="italic">level 1 inputs</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,
which are inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1
that are observable for the financial asset or liability either directly
or indirectly. If the financial asset or liability has a specified
(contractual) term, a level 2 input must be observable for substantially
the full term of the financial asset or liability. Level 2 inputs
include the following:
              <emphasis role="italic">level 2 inputs</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
          <listitem>
            <para>Quoted prices for similar financial assets or liabilities
in active markets</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Quoted prices for identical or similar financial assets
or liabilities in markets that are not active</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable
for the financial asset or liability (for example, interest rates
and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals, implied
volatilities, and credit spreads)</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Inputs that are derived principally from, or corroborated
by, observable market data by correlation or other means (market-corroborated
inputs)</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>
              ,
which are unobservable inputs for the financial asset or liability.
Unobservable inputs are used to measure fair value to the extent that
relevant observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for
situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the
financial asset or liability at the measurement date.
              <emphasis role="italic">level 3 inputs</emphasis>
            </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_27" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.27</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.27</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Certain financial reporting frameworks
may require or permit the entity to adjust for measurement uncertainties
in order to adjust for risks that a market participant would make
in the pricing to take account of the uncertainties of the risks associated
with the pricing or cash flows of the financial instrument. Some examples
are as follows:</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">
          Adjustments are not appropriate if they adjust
the measurement and valuation of the financial instrument away from , as defined by the applicable
financial reporting framework (for example, for conservatism).
          <emphasis role="italic">fair value</emphasis>
        </para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>Model adjustments. Some models may have a known deficiency,
or the result of calibration may highlight the deficiency for the
fair value measurement in accordance with the financial reporting
framework.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Credit-risk adjustments. Some models do not take into
account credit risk, including counterparty risk or own credit risk.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Liquidity adjustments. Some models calculate a midmarket
price, even though the financial reporting framework may require use
of a liquidity-adjusted amount, such as a bid-offer spread. Another,
more judgmental liquidity adjustment recognizes that some financial
instruments are illiquid, which affects the valuation.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Other risk adjustments. A value measured using a model
that does not take into account all other factors that market participants
would consider in pricing the financial instrument may not represent
fair value on the measurement date and, therefore, may need to be
adjusted separately to comply with the applicable financial reporting
framework.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_28" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.28</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.28</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Paragraphs 5–20 of FASB ASC 820-10-55
describe the use of present value techniques to measure fair value.
Those paragraphs neither prescribe the use of a single specific present
value technique nor limit the use of present value techniques to measure
fair value to the techniques discussed therein.  (that is, an application of the income approach)
is a tool used to link future amounts to a present amount using a
discount rate. A fair value measurement of an asset or a liability
using a present value technique captures all of the following elements
from the perspective of market participants at the measurement date:
          <emphasis role="italic">Present value</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          An estimate of future cash flows for the asset or liability
being measured.
          <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Expectations about possible variations in the amount and timing
of the cash flows representing the uncertainty inherent in the cash
flows.
          <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          The time value of money, represented by the rate on risk-free
monetary assets that have maturity dates or durations that coincide
with the period covered by the cash flows and pose neither uncertainty
in timing nor risk of default to the holder (that is, a risk-free
interest rate). For present value computations denominated in nominal
U.S. dollars, the yield curve for U.S. Treasury securities determines
the appropriate risk-free interest rate.
          <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          The price for bearing the uncertainty inherent in the cash
flows (that is, a risk premium).
          <emphasis role="italic">d.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Other factors that market participants would take into account
in the circumstances.
          <emphasis role="italic">e.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          For a liability, the nonperformance risk relating to that liability,
including the reporting entity’s (obligor’s) own credit risk.
          <emphasis role="italic">f.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_observable_and_unobservable_inputs" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Observable and Unobservable Inputs</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Observable and Unobservable Inputs</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_29" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.29</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.29</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">As previously mentioned, inputs are often
categorized according to the degree of observability. As activity
in a market for financial instruments and the observability of inputs
decline, measurement uncertainty increases. The nature and reliability
of information available to support valuation of financial instruments
varies depending on the observability of inputs to its measurement,
which is influenced by the nature of the market (for example, the
level of market activity and whether the activity is through an exchange
or OTC market). Accordingly, a continuum of the nature and reliability
of evidence used to support valuation exists, and it becomes more
difficult for management to obtain information to support a valuation
when markets become inactive and inputs become less observable.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_30" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.30</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.30</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">When observable inputs are not available,
an entity uses unobservable inputs (level 3 inputs) that reflect the
assumption that market participants would use when pricing the financial
asset or liability, including assumptions about risk. Unobservable
inputs are developed using the best information available in the circumstances.
In developing unobservable inputs, an entity may begin with its own
data that is adjusted if reasonably available information indicates
that other market participants would use different data.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_effects_of_inactive_markets" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Effects of Inactive Markets</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Effects of Inactive Markets</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_31" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.31</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.31</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Measurement uncertainty increases and
valuation is more complicated when the markets in which financial
instruments or their component parts are traded become inactive. No
clear point exists at which an active market becomes inactive, though
financial reporting frameworks may provide guidance on this issue.
Characteristics of an inactive market include a significant decline
in the volume and level of trading activity, and available prices
vary significantly over time or among market participants, or the
prices are not current. However, assessing whether a market is inactive
requires judgment.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_32" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.32</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.32</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          When markets are inactive, quoted prices
may be stale (that is, out of date); may not represent prices at which
market participants may trade; or may represent forced transactions
(such as [] when a seller is required
to sell an asset to meet regulatory or legal requirements or needs
to dispose of an asset immediately to create liquidity or [] the existence of a single potential buyer
as a result of the legal or time restrictions imposed). Accordingly,
valuations may be developed based on level 2 and level 3 inputs. Under
such circumstances, entities may have
          <emphasis role="italic">a</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">b</emphasis>
        </para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>a valuation policy that includes a process for determining
whether level 1 inputs are available.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>an understanding of how particular prices or inputs
from external sources used as inputs to valuation techniques were
calculated in order to assess their reliability. For example, in an
active market, a broker quote on a financial instrument that has not
traded is likely to reflect actual transactions on a similar financial
instrument, but as the market becomes less active, the broker quote
may rely more on proprietary valuation techniques to determine prices.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>an understanding of how deteriorating business conditions
affect the counterparty, as well as whether deteriorating business
conditions in entities similar to the counterparty may indicate that
the counterparty may not fulfill its obligations (that is, nonperformance
risk).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>policies for adjusting for measurement uncertainties.
Such adjustments can include model adjustments, lack of liquidity
adjustments, credit risk adjustments, and other risk adjustments.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the capability to calculate the range of realistic
outcomes, given the uncertainties involved (for example by performing
a sensitivity analysis).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>policies for identifying when a fair value measurement
input moves to a different level of the fair value hierarchy.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_33" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.33</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.33</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Particular difficulties may develop when
severe curtailment or even cessation of trading in particular financial
instruments exists. In these circumstances, financial instruments
that have previously been valued using market prices may need to be
valued using a model.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_managements_valuation_process" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Management’s Valuation Process</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Management’s Valuation Process</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_34" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.34</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.34</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Techniques that management may use to
value the entity’s financial instruments include observable prices,
recent transactions, and models that use observable or unobservable
inputs. Management may also make use of a</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">Third-party pricing sources and valuation
specialists may use one or more of these valuation techniques.</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>third-party pricing source, such as a pricing service
or broker quote.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>valuation specialist.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_35" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.35</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.35</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">In many financial reporting frameworks,
the best evidence of a financial instrument’s fair value is found
in contemporaneous transactions in an active market (that is, level
1 inputs). In such cases, the valuation of a financial instrument
may be relatively simple. Quoted prices for financial instruments
that are listed on exchanges or traded in liquid OTC markets may be
available from sources such as financial publications, the exchanges
themselves, or third-party pricing sources. When using quoted prices,
it is important that management understand the basis on which the
quote is given to ensure that the price reflects market conditions
at the measurement date. Quoted prices obtained from publications
or exchanges may provide sufficient evidence of fair value when, for
example, the</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>prices are not out of date or "stale" (for example,
if the quote is based on the last traded price, and the trade occurred
some time ago).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>quotes are prices at which dealers would actually
trade the financial instrument with sufficient frequency and volume.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_36" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.36</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.36</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">When no current observable market price
for the financial instrument (that is, a level 1 input) exists, it
will be necessary for the entity to gather other price indicators
to use in a valuation technique to value the financial instrument.
Price indicators may include</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>recent transactions, including transactions after
the date of the financial statements in the same instrument. Consideration
is given to whether an adjustment needs to be made for changes in
market conditions between the measurement date and the date the transaction
was made because these transactions are not necessarily indicative
of the market conditions that existed at the date of the financial
statements. In addition, it is possible the transaction represents
a forced transaction and, therefore, is not indicative of a price
in an orderly trade.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>current or recent transactions in similar instruments,
often known as proxy pricing. Adjustments will need to be made to
the price of the proxy to reflect the differences between it and the
instrument being priced (for example, to take account of differences
in liquidity or credit risk between the two instruments).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>indexes for similar instruments. As with transactions
in similar instruments, adjustments will need to be made to reflect
the difference between the instrument being priced and the instrument(s)
from which the index used is derived.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>transactions in the financial instrument occurring
on thinly traded markets, such as OTC or bulletin board exchanges.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_37" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.37</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.37</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Management is expected to document its
valuation policies and model used to value a particular financial
instrument, including the rationale for the model(s) used, the selection
of assumptions in the valuation methodology, and the entity’s consideration
of whether adjustments for measurement uncertainty are necessary. </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_models" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Models</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Models</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi1_38" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.38</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.38</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Models may be used to value financial
instruments when the price cannot be directly observed in the market.
Models can be as simple as a commonly used bond pricing formula or
involve complex, specifically developed software tools to value financial
instruments with level 3 inputs. Many models are based on discounted
cash flow calculations. </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi1_39" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.39</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.39</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            Examples of models that are often used
are Black-Scholes, which is frequently used for option pricing, and
the zero-coupon method, which is often used for estimating the fair
value of interest rate swaps. , "Information About the Black-Scholes Valuation Model,"
and , "Information
About the Zero-Coupon Valuation Model," of this guide provide more
information about the Black-Scholes and zero-coupon method.
            <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appD">Appendix
D</olink>
            <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appE">appendix E</olink>
          </para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi1_40" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.40</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.40</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Models comprise a methodology, assumptions,
and data. The methodology describes rules or principles governing
the relationship between the variables in the valuation. Assumptions
include estimates of uncertain variables that are used in the model.
Data may comprise actual or hypothetical information about the financial
instrument or other inputs to the financial instrument.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi1_41" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.41</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.41</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Depending on the circumstances, matters
that the entity may address when establishing or validating a model
for a financial instrument include whether</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>the model is validated prior to usage, with periodic
reviews to ensure that it is still suitable for its intended use.
The entity’s validation process may include evaluation of the</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
          <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
            <listitem>
              <para>methodology’s theoretical soundness and mathematical
integrity, including the appropriateness of parameters and sensitivities.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>consistency and completeness of the model’s inputs
with market practices and whether the appropriate inputs are available
for use in the model.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>appropriate change control policies, procedures, and
security controls over the model exist.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>the model is appropriately changed or adjusted on
a timely basis for changes in market conditions.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>the model is periodically calibrated, reviewed, and
tested for validity by a separate and objective function. Doing so
is a means of ensuring that the model’s output is a fair representation
of the value that marketplace participants would ascribe to a financial
instrument.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>the model maximizes the use of relevant observable
inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>adjustments are made to the output of the model to
reflect the assumptions that marketplace participants would use in
similar circumstances.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>the model is adequately documented, including the
model’s intended applications and limitations and its key parameters,
required data, results of any validation analysis performed, and any
adjustments made to the output of the model.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_an_example_of_a" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>An Example of a Common Financial Instrument</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">An Example of a Common Financial Instrument</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi1_42" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.42</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.42</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            The following describes how models may
be applied to value a common financial instrument, known as an asset-backed
security. Because asset-backed securities are often valued based
on level 2 or level 3 inputs, they are frequently valued using models
and involve understanding the
            <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn6" label="fn 6" role="number">
              <para>
                An  is
a financial instrument that is backed by a pool of underlying assets
(known as the collateral, such as credit card receivables or vehicle
loans) and that derives value and income from those underlying assets.
                <emphasis role="italic">asset-backed security</emphasis>
              </para>
            </footnote>
          </para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>type of security, considering the underlying collateral
and the terms of the security. The underlying collateral is used to
estimate the timing and amounts of cash flows, such as mortgage or
credit card interest and principal payments.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>terms of the security. This includes evaluating contractual
cash flow rights, such as the order of repayment, and any default
events. The order of repayment, often known as seniority, refers to
terms that require that some classes of security holders (senior debt)
are repaid before others (subordinated debt). The rights of each class
of security holder to the cash flows, frequently referred to as the
cash flow "waterfall," together with assumptions of the timing and
amount of cash flows, are used to derive a set of estimated cash flows
for each class of security holder. The expected cash flows are then
discounted to derive an estimated fair value.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi1_43" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.43</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.43</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">The cash flows of an asset-backed security
may be affected by prepayments of the underlying collateral and potential
default risk and resulting estimated loss reserves. Prepayment assumptions,
if applicable, are generally based on evaluating market interest rates
for similar collateral to the rates on the collateral underlying the
security. For example, if market interest rates for mortgages have
declined, then the underlying mortgages in a security may experience
higher prepayment rates than originally expected. Estimating potential
default and loss reserve involves close evaluation of the underlying
collateral and borrowers to estimate default rates. For example, when
the underlying collateral comprises residential mortgages, loss reserves
may be affected by estimates of residential housing prices over the
term of the security.</para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_third_party_pricing_sources" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Third-Party Pricing Sources</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Third-Party Pricing Sources</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi1_44" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.44</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.44</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Entities may use third-party pricing sources
in order to obtain fair value information. The preparation of an entity’s
financial statements, including the valuation of financial instruments
and the preparation of financial statement disclosures relating to
these instruments, may require expertise that management does not
possess. Entities may not be able to develop appropriate valuation
techniques, including models that may be used in a valuation, and
may use a third-party pricing source to arrive at a valuation or provide
disclosures for the financial statements. This may particularly be
the case in smaller entities or entities that do not engage in a high
volume of financial instrument transactions (for example, nonfinancial
institutions with treasury departments). Even though management has
used a third-party pricing source, management is ultimately responsible
for the valuation and establishing internal control over the valuation
process.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi1_45" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.45</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.45</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Third-party pricing sources may also be
used because the volume of financial instruments to price over a short
time frame may not be possible by the entity. This is often the case
for traded investment funds that must determine a net asset value
each day. In other cases, management may have its own pricing process
but use third-party pricing sources to corroborate its own valuations.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi1_46" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.46</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.46</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">For one or more of these reasons, most
entities use third-party pricing sources when valuing financial instruments
either as a primary source or a source of corroboration for their
own valuations. Third-party pricing sources generally fall into the
following categories:</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>Pricing services, including consensus pricing services</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>Brokers providing broker quotes</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_pricing_services" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Pricing Services</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Pricing Services</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi1_47" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.47</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.47</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Pricing services provide entities with
prices and price-related data for a variety of financial instruments,
often performing daily valuations of large numbers of financial instruments.
These valuations may be made by collecting market data and prices
from a wide variety of sources, including market makers, and, in certain
instances, by using internal valuation techniques to derive estimated
fair values. Pricing services may combine a number of approaches to
arrive at a price and are often used as a source of prices based on
level 2 inputs. Pricing services may have strong controls around how
prices are developed, and their customers often include a wide variety
of parties, including buy-and-sell side investors, auditors, and others.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi1_48" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.48</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.48</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Pricing services often have a formalized
process for customers to challenge the prices received from the pricing
services. These challenge processes usually require the customer to
provide evidence to support an alternative price, with challenges
categorized based on the quality of evidence provided. For example,
a challenge based on a recent sale of that instrument the pricing
service was not aware of may be upheld, whereas a challenge based
on a customer’s own valuation technique may be more heavily scrutinized.
In this way, a pricing service with a large number of leading participants,
both buy and sell side, may be able to constantly correct prices to
more fully reflect the information available to market participants.</para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_consensus_pricing_services" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Consensus Pricing Services</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Consensus Pricing Services</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi1_49" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.49</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.49</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Some entities may use pricing data from
consensus pricing services, which differ from other pricing services.
Consensus pricing services obtain pricing information about an instrument
from several participating entities (subscribers). Each subscriber
submits prices to the pricing service. The pricing service treats
this information confidentially and returns to each subscriber the
consensus price, which is usually an arithmetical average of the data
after a data-cleansing routine has been employed to eliminate outliers.
For some markets, such as exotic derivatives, consensus prices might
constitute the best available data. However, many factors are considered
when assessing the representational faithfulness of the consensus
prices, including, for example</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>whether the prices submitted by the subscribers reflect
actual transactions or just indicative prices based on their own valuation
techniques.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>the number of sources from which prices have been
obtained.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>the quality of the sources used by the consensus pricing
service.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>whether participants include leading market participants.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi1_50" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.50</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.50</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Typically, consensus prices are only available
to subscribers who have submitted their own prices to the service.
Accordingly, not all entities will have direct access to consensus
prices. Because a subscriber generally cannot know how the prices
submitted were estimated, other sources of evidence in addition to
information from consensus pricing services may be needed for management
to support its valuation. In particular, this may be the case if the
sources are providing indicative prices based on their own valuation
techniques, and management is unable to obtain an understanding of
how these sources calculated their prices.</para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_brokers_providing_broker_quotes" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Brokers Providing Broker Quotes</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Brokers Providing Broker Quotes</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi1_51" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.51</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.51</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">
            Because brokers provide quotes only as
an incidental service for their clients, quotes they provide differ
in many respects from prices obtained in pricing services. Brokers
may be unwilling to provide information about the process used to
develop their quote but may have access to information on transactions
about which a pricing service may not be aware. Broker quotes may
be executable or indicative.  are a broker’s best estimate of fair value, whereas an executable
quote shows that the broker is willing to transact at this price.
Executable quotes are strong evidence of fair value. Indicative quotes
are less so because of the lack of transparency into the methods used
by the broker to establish the quote. In addition the rigor of controls
over the brokers’ quote often will differ depending on whether the
broker also holds the same security in his or her own portfolio. Broker
quotes are often used for financial instruments with level 3 inputs
and sometimes may be the only external information available.
            <emphasis role="italic">Indicative quotes</emphasis>
          </para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_further_considerations_relating_to" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Further Considerations Relating to Third-Party Pricing
Sources</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Further Considerations Relating to
Third-Party Pricing Sources</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi1_52" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.52</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.52</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Understanding how the pricing sources
calculated a price enables management to determine whether such information
is suitable for use in its valuation, including as an input to a valuation
technique and in what level of inputs the security should be categorized
for disclosure purposes. For example, third-party pricing sources
may value financial instruments using proprietary models, and it is
important that management understands the methodology, assumptions,
and data used.</para>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi1_53" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.53</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.53</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">If fair value measurements obtained from
third-party pricing sources are not based on the current prices of
an active market, it will be necessary for management to evaluate
whether the fair value measurements were derived in a manner that
is consistent with the applicable financial reporting framework. Management’s
understanding of the fair value measurement may include</para>
          <para role="ps_indent_0">Understanding the bases on which third-party
pricing sources have determined their quotes in the context of the
particular financial instruments held by the entity assists management
in evaluating the relevance and reliability of this evidence to support
its valuations.</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>how the fair value measurement was determined (for
example, whether the fair value measurement was determined by a valuation
technique in order to assess whether it is consistent with the fair
value measurement objective).</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>whether the quotes are indicative prices, indicative
spread, or binding offers.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>how frequently the fair value measurement is estimated
by the third-party pricing sources in order to assess whether it reflects
market conditions at the measurement date.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
        <section id="aag-afi1_54" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.54</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.54</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Disparities may exist between price indicators
from different sources. Understanding how the price indicators were
derived and investigating these disparities assists management in
corroborating the evidence used in developing its valuation of financial
instruments in order to evaluate whether the valuation is reasonable.
Simply taking the average of the quotes provided without doing further
research may not be appropriate because one price in the range may
be the most representative of fair value, and this may not be the
average. To evaluate whether its valuations of financial instruments
are reasonable, management may</para>
          <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
            <listitem>
              <para>consider whether actual transactions represent forced
transactions rather than transactions between willing buyers and sellers.
This may invalidate the price as a comparison.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>analyze the expected future cash flows of the instrument.
This could be performed as an indicator of the most relevant pricing
data.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>depending on the nature of what is unobservable, extrapolate
from observed prices to unobserved ones (for example, there may be
observed prices for maturities up to 10 years but not longer, but
the 10-year price curve may be capable of being extrapolated beyond
10 years as an indicator). Care is needed to ensure that extrapolation
is not carried so far beyond the observable curve that its link to
observable prices becomes too tenuous to be reliable.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>compare prices within a portfolio of financial instruments
with each other to make sure they are consistent among similar financial
instruments.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>use more than one model to corroborate the results
from each one, considering the data and assumptions used in each.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>evaluate movements in the prices for related hedging
instruments and collateral.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_use_of_valuation_specialists" role="ls_level_5">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>Use of Valuation Specialists</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Use of Valuation Specialists</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <section id="aag-afi1_55" role="ls_level_8">
          <sectioninfo>
            <titleabbrev>1.55</titleabbrev>
            <title role="ps_para_number">1.55</title>
          </sectioninfo>
          <para role="ps_para_number">Management may engage a valuation specialist
from an investment bank, a broker, or another valuation firm to value
some or all of the entity’s financial instruments. Unlike pricing
services and broker quotes, generally, the methodology and data used
are more readily available to management when it has engaged a specialist
to perform a valuation on its behalf. Even though management has engaged
a specialist, management is ultimately responsible for the valuation
used.</para>
        </section>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_issues_related_to_financial" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Issues Related to Financial Liabilities</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Issues Related to Financial Liabilities</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_56" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.56</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.56</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Understanding the effect of credit risk
is an important aspect of valuing both financial assets and liabilities.
This valuation reflects the credit quality and financial strength
of both the issuer and any credit support providers. In some financial
reporting frameworks, the measurement of a financial liability assumes
it is transferred to a market participant at the measurement date.
When an observable market price for a financial liability does not
exist, its value is typically measured using the same method a counterparty
would use to measure the value of the corresponding asset, unless
there are factors specific to the liability (such as third-party credit
enhancement). In particular, the entity’s own credit risk can often be difficult to measure.
          <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn7" label="fn 7" role="number">
            <para>
               is the amount
of change in fair value that is not attributable to changes in market
conditions.
              <emphasis role="italic">Own credit risk</emphasis>
            </para>
          </footnote>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi1_presentation_and_disclosure_about" role="ls_level_3">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Presentation and Disclosure About Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_main_heading">
        Presentation and Disclosure About Financial
Instruments
        <footnote id="aag-afi1_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
          <para>
            <emphasis role="shade">
              FASB ASU No. 2018-13, , was issued in August 2018. The amendments resulting from this ASU
are effective for all entities for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years; however,
certain disclosures are not required for nonpublic entities. Early
adoption is permitted.
              <emphasis role="italic">Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Disclosure Framework
— Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement</emphasis>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para>
            <emphasis role="shade">
              The amendments in this ASU add,
modify and remove disclosure requirements in FASB ASC 820, related
to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para>
            <emphasis role="shade">
              Application of the guidance in
this ASU is prospective for certain amendments and retrospective for
other amendments. Prospective application is required for only the
most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal
year of adoption for the following: changes in unrealized gains and
losses; the range and weighted average of significant unobservable
inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements; and, the narrative
description of measurement uncertainty. Retrospective application
to all periods presented upon their effective date is required for
all other amendments.
              <tab/>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
          <para>
            <emphasis role="shade">
              Readers are encouraged to consult
the full text of this ASU on FASB's website at .
              <tab/>
              <ulink url="http://www.fasb.org">www.fasb.org</ulink>
            </emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi1_57" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.57</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.57</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Most financial reporting frameworks require
disclosures in the financial statements to enable users of the financial
statements to make meaningful assessments of the effects of the entity’s
financial instrument activities, including the risks and uncertainties
associated with financial instruments.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_58" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>1.58</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">1.58</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Most frameworks require the disclosure
of quantitative and qualitative information (including accounting
policies) relating to financial instruments. The accounting requirements
for fair value measurements in financial statement presentations and
disclosures are extensive in most financial reporting frameworks and
encompass more than just valuation of the financial instruments. For
example, qualitative disclosures about financial instruments provide
important contextual information about the characteristics of the
financial instruments and their future cash flows that may help inform
investors about the risks to which entities are exposed.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_categories_of_disclosures" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Categories of Disclosures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Categories of Disclosures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_59" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.59</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.59</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Disclosure requirements include</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>quantitative disclosures that are derived from the
amounts included in the financial statements (for example, categories
of financial assets and liabilities).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>quantitative disclosures that require significant
judgment (for example, sensitivity analysis for each type of market
risk to which the entity is exposed).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>qualitative disclosures (for example, those that describe
the entity’s governance over financial instruments; objectives; controls,
policies, and processes for managing each type of risk arising from
financial instruments; and the methods used to measure the risks).</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_60" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.60</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.60</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The more sensitive the valuation to movements
in a particular variable, the more likely it is that disclosure will
be necessary to indicate the uncertainties surrounding the valuation.
Financial reporting frameworks may also require disclosure of sensitivity
analyses, including the effects of changes in assumptions used in
the entity’s valuation techniques. For example, the additional disclosures
required for financial instruments with fair value measurements that
are categorized within level 3 inputs of the fair value hierarchy
are aimed at informing users of financial statements about the effects
of those fair value measurements that use the most subjective inputs.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_61" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.61</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.61</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Financial reporting frameworks may require
disclosure of information that enables users of the financial statements
to evaluate the nature and extent of the risks arising from financial
instruments to which the entity is exposed at the reporting date.
The extent of disclosure depends on the extent of the entity’s exposure
to risks arising from financial instruments. This includes qualitative
disclosures about</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>the exposures to risk and how they arise, including
the possible effects on an entity’s future liquidity and collateral
requirements.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>the entity’s objectives, policies, and processes for
managing the risk and the methods used to measure the risk.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>any changes in exposures to risk or objectives, policies,
or processes for managing risk from the previous period.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi1_fair_value_disclosures" role="ls_level_4">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Fair Value Disclosures</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_sub_heading">Fair Value Disclosures</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi1_62" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.62</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.62</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">FASB ASC 820-10-50 discusses the disclosures
required for assets and liabilities measured at fair value. As noted
in FASB ASC 820-10-50-1, the reporting entity should disclose information
that would help users of its financial statements understand and assess
the following:</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          For assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value
on a recurring or nonrecurring basis in the statement of financial
position after initial recognition, the valuation techniques and inputs
used to develop those measurements; and
          <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          For recurring fair value measurements using significant unobservable
inputs (Level 3), the effect of the measurements on earnings (or changes
in net assets) or other comprehensive income for the period.
          <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">
          <emphasis role="shade">“Pending Content”
in the FASB ASC indicates that paragraph 1 of FASB ASC 820-10-50 is
superseded by ASU No. 2018-13 and paragraph 1C is added. FASB ASC
820-10-50-1C states that the objective of the disclosure requirements
in the overall subtopic of FASB ASC 820 is to provide users of financial
statements with information about assets and liabilities measured
at fair value in the statement of financial position or disclosed
in the notes to financial statements. The following items are listed
in FASB ASC 820-10-50-1C:</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          <emphasis role="shade">
            The valuation techniques and inputs
that a reporting entity uses to arrive at its measures of fair value,
including judgments and assumptions that the entity makes
            <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          <emphasis role="shade">
            The uncertainty in the fair value
measurements as of the reporting date
            <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          <emphasis role="shade">
            How changes in fair value measurements
affect an entity’s performance and cash flows.
            <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_63" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.63</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.63</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">To meet the objectives noted in the preceding
paragraph, FASB ASC 820-10-50-1A states that a reporting entity should
consider all of the following:</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          The level of detail necessary to satisfy the disclosure requirements
          <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          How much emphasis to place on each of the various requirements
          <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          How much aggregation or disaggregation to undertake
          <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Whether users of financial statements need additional information
to evaluate the quantitative information disclosed
          <emphasis role="italic">d.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">If the disclosures set forth in the guidance
are insufficient to meet the objectives in the preceding paragraph,
a reporting entity should disclose additional information necessary
to meet those objectives.</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">
          <emphasis role="shade">“Pending Content”
in the FASB ASC indicates that paragraph 1A of FASB ASC 820-10-50
is superseded by ASU No. 2018-13 and the content is amended and moved
to paragraph 1D. FASB ASC 820-10-50-1D states that a reporting entity
should consider all of the following items when complying with the
disclosure requirements in the overall subtopic of FASB ASC 820. </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          <emphasis role="shade">
            The level of detail necessary to
satisfy the disclosure requirements 
            <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          <emphasis role="shade">
            How much emphasis to place on each
of the various requirements 
            <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          <emphasis role="shade">
            How much aggregation or disaggregation
to undertake 
            <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          <emphasis role="shade">
            Whether users of financial statements
need additional information to evaluate the quantitative information
disclosed.
            <emphasis role="italic">d.</emphasis>
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi1_64" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>1.64</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">1.64</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The required disclosures related to fair
value are extensive and detailed. FASB ASC 820-10-50 provides details
of the information that should be disclosed by the reporting entity.
FASB ASC 820-10-50 also provides information on other required disclosures
related to fair value. Paragraphs 99–107 of FASB ASC 820-10-55 provide
illustrative disclosures about fair value measurements.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>