<root id="aag-afi_appF_fasbasu_no__201904" role="ls_level_5">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>FASB ASU No. 2019-04, Codification Improvements to Topic
326, Financial Instruments — Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives
and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_subsub_heading">FASB ASU No. 2019-04, Codification
Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments — Credit Losses,
Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">
    In April 2019, FASB issued ASU No. 2019-04
to clarify, correct, and improve various aspects of the guidance in
ASU Nos. 2016-01, 2016-13, , and 2017-12, , related to financial instruments. The discussion
herein will only address those amendments related to ASU No. 2016-01.
Amendments related to ASU Nos. 2016-13 and ASU No. 2017-12 will be
addressed in subsequent sections of this appendix.
    <emphasis role="italic">Financial Instruments
— Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial
Instruments</emphasis>
    <emphasis role="italic">Derivatives
and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging
Activities</emphasis>
  </para>
  <para role="ps_indent_0">ASU No. 2019-04 clarifies certain aspects
of the amendments in ASU No. 2016-01 as follows:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments clarify
the scope of FASB ASC 320-10 and FASB ASC 321-10 by specifically naming
health and welfare plans accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC
965,  in the paragraphs limiting the scope of
those subtopics.
        <emphasis role="italic">Scope clarifications for FASB
ASC 320-10 and FASB ASC 321-10.</emphasis>
        <emphasis role="italic">Plan Accounting — Health and Welfare
Benefit Plans,</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments to the disclosure
requirements addressed in FASB ASC 320-10-50-5 and FASB ASC 942-320-50-3
and the additions of paragraphs 5A–5B of FASB ASC 320-10-50 and paragraph
3A of FASB ASC 942-320-50 clarify FASB’s intent to exempt entities
other than public business entities from fair value disclosure requirements
for financial instruments not measured at fair value on the balance
sheet. 
        <emphasis role="italic">Held-to-maturity debt securities
fair value disclosures.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments specifically
require that an entity remeasure an equity security without readily
determinable fair value at fair value when an orderly transaction
is identified for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer
in accordance with FASB ASC 820. That is, the amendments clarify that
the measurement alternative is a nonrecurring fair value measurement.
Additionally, the amendments clarify that an entity should adhere
to the applicable disclosure requirements in FASB ASC 820 for a nonrecurring
fair value measurement.
        <emphasis role="italic">Applicability of FASB ASC
820 to the measurement alternative.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
         The amendments clarify that
equity securities without readily determinable fair values accounted
for under the measurement alternative in accordance with FASB ASC
321-10-35-2 are required to follow FASB ASC 830-10-45-18, which requires
remeasurement at historical exchange rates. In addition, the amendments
clarify that the rate used should be the historical exchange rate
as of the later of the acquisition date or the most recent date on
which the equity security was adjusted to fair value in accordance
with paragraphs 2–3 of FASB ASC 321-10-35, if applicable. In addition,
the amendments to FASB ASC 830-10-45-18 are not intended to change
items that should be remeasured at historical exchange rates. 
        <emphasis role="italic">Remeasurement of equity securities
at historical exchange rates.</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>