<root id="aag-afi6_reliance_on_the_work" role="ls_level_4">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Reliance on the Work of the Specialist</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_sub_heading">Reliance on the Work of the Specialist</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi6_15" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.15</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.15</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The auditor should not refer to the work
of an auditor’s specialist in an auditor’s report containing an unmodified
opinion. Reference to the specialist might be misunderstood to
be a modification of the auditor’s opinion or division of responsibility,
neither of which is intended. 
      <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn11" label="fn 11" role="number">
        <para>
          Paragraph .14 of AU-C section 620B, .
          <emphasis role="italic">Using the Work of an Auditor’s Specialist</emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_16" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.16</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.16</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Circumstances may arise as a result of
the valuation report or findings of the specialist wherein the auditor
decides to modify the auditor’s report on the financial statements.
Reference to, and identification of, the specialist may be made in
the auditor’s report if, in the auditor’s judgment, the reference
will facilitate an understanding of the reason for the modified opinion.
In that circumstance, the auditor is required to indicate in the auditor’s
report that such reference does not reduce the auditor’s responsibility
for that opinion.
      <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn12" label="fn 12" role="number">
        <para>Paragraph .15 of AU-C section 620B.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi6_17" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>6.17</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">6.17</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      Situations may arise in which an entity
lacks the sophistication to perform its own valuation. For example,
an acquiring entity may refuse to engage a valuation specialist and
makes its own estimate of the fair value of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed. In those circumstances, the auditor may recommend
that the acquiring entity engage a qualified independent valuation
specialist. If, in the auditor’s judgment, the valuation is not properly
prepared, it may not provide sufficient audit evidence in support
of the amounts assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
AU-C section 705B describes the implications of the auditor’s inability
to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. See  for additional
guidance.
      <olink targetptr="aag-afi6_18">paragraphs 6.18–.21</olink>
    </para>
  </section>
</root>