<root id="aag-afi6_09" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>6.09</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">6.09</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">In relation to the presentation and disclosures
of financial instruments, areas of particular importance include the
following:</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Financial reporting frameworks generally require additional
disclosures regarding estimates and related risks and uncertainties
to supplement and explain assets, liabilities, income, and expenses.
The auditor’s focus may need to be on the disclosures relating to
risks and sensitivity analysis. Information obtained during the auditor’s
risk assessment procedures and testing of control activities may provide
evidence in order for the auditor to conclude whether the disclosures
in the financial statements are in accordance with the requirements
of the applicable financial reporting framework, such as the following:</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>The entity’s objectives and strategies for using financial
instruments, including the entity’s stated accounting policies</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>The entity’s control framework for managing its risks
associated with financial instruments</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>The risks and uncertainties associated with the financial
instruments</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>Information may come from systems outside traditional
financial reporting systems, such as risk systems. Examples of procedures
that the auditor may choose to perform in responding to assessed risks
relative to disclosures include testing the</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="emdash" role="ps_indent_4">
    <listitem>
      <para>process used to derive the disclosed information.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>operating effectiveness of the controls over the data
used in the preparation of disclosures.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        In relation to financial instruments having significant
risk, even when the disclosures are in accordance with the applicable
financial reporting framework, the auditor may conclude that the disclosure
of estimation uncertainty is inadequate in light of the circumstances
and facts involved, and accordingly, the financial statements may
not achieve fair presentation. AU-C section 705B, , provides guidance on the implications for the auditor’s
opinion when the auditor believes management’s disclosures in the
financial statements are inadequate or misleading.
        <footnote id="aag-afi6_fn8" label="fn 8" role="number">
          <para>Paragraph .20 of AU-C section 540B requires the auditor to perform
further procedures on disclosures relating to accounting estimates
that give rise to significant risks to evaluate the adequacy of the
disclosure of estimation uncertainty in the financial statements in
the context of the applicable financial reporting framework.</para>
        </footnote>
        <emphasis role="italic">Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s
Report</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Auditors may also consider whether the disclosures
are complete and understandable. (For example, all relevant information
may be included in the financial statements [or accompanying reports],
but it may be insufficiently drawn together to enable users of the
financial statements to obtain an understanding of the position, or
there may not be enough qualitative disclosure to give context to
the amounts recorded in the financial statements). For example, even
when an entity has included sensitivity analysis disclosures, the
disclosure may not fully describe the risks and uncertainties that
may arise because of changes in valuation, possible effects on debt
covenants, collateral requirements, and the entity’s liquidity. Paragraph
.12 of AU-C section 260B, , contains requirements
and guidance about communicating with those charged with governance,
including the auditor’s views about qualitative aspects of the entity’s
significant accounting practices, including accounting policies, accounting
estimates, and financial statement disclosures.
        <emphasis role="italic">The Auditor’s Communication
With Those Charged With Governance</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>