<root id="aag-afi3_understanding_internal_control" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Understanding Internal Control</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Understanding Internal Control</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi3_01" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.01</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.01</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      AU-C section 315B, , addresses the auditor’s responsibility
to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the financial
statements through understanding the entity and its environment, including
the entity’s internal control. Obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment,
including the entity’s internal control, is a continuous, dynamic
process of gathering, updating, and analyzing information throughout
the audit. The understanding obtained enables the auditor to identify
and assess the risks of material misstatement at the financial statement
and assertion levels, thereby providing a basis for designing and
implementing responses to the assessed risks of material misstatement.
The volume and variety of the financial instrument transactions of
an entity typically determine the nature and extent of controls that
may exist at an entity. An understanding of how financial instruments
are monitored and controlled assists the auditor in determining the
nature, timing, and extent of audit procedures.
      <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks
of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
        <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_02" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.02</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.02</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">AU-C section 315B requires the auditor
to obtain a sufficient understanding of internal control by performing
risk assessment procedures to</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_0">The auditor is required to use this knowledge
to</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>evaluate the design of controls relevant to an audit
of financial statements.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>determine whether they have been implemented.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>identify types of potential misstatements.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>consider factors that affect the risks of material
misstatement.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>design tests of controls, when applicable, and substantive
procedures.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_03" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.03</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.03</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">AU-C section 315B explains that the division
of internal control into the following five components, for purposes
of generally accepted accounting standards, provides a useful framework
for auditors when considering how different aspects of an entity’s
internal control may affect the audit:</para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      The control environment
      <emphasis role="italic">
        a.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      The entity’s risk assessment process
      <emphasis role="italic">
        b.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      The information system, including the related business processes
relevant to financial reporting and communication
      <emphasis role="italic">
        c.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      Control activities
      <emphasis role="italic">
        d.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
    <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
      Monitoring of controls
      <emphasis role="italic">
        e.
        <tab/>
      </emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_04" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.04</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.04</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The division does not necessarily reflect
how an entity designs, implements, and maintains internal control
or how it may classify any particular component. Auditors may use
different terminology or frameworks to describe the various aspects
of internal control and their effect on the audit other than those
used in this section, provided that all the components described in
this section are addressed.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_05" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.05</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.05</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      This chapter provides background information
and examples of controls that may exist in an entity that deals in
a high volume of financial instrument transactions, whether for trading
or investing purposes. The examples are not meant to be exhaustive,
and entities may establish different control environments and processes
depending on their size, the industry in which they operate, and the
extent of their financial instrument transactions. The following four
Technical Questions and Answers (Q&amp;A) sections address internal control:
      <footnote id="aag-afi3_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
        <para>
           is not a source
of established authoritative accounting principles as described in
the FASB , the authoritative source
of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for nongovernmental
entities. This nonauthoritative material is based on selected practice
matters identified by the staff of the AICPA  and various other bodies within the AICPA and has
not been approved, disapproved, or otherwise acted upon by any senior
technical committee of the AICPA. 
          <emphasis role="italic">
            <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tpa">Technical Questions and Answers</olink>
          </emphasis>
          <emphasis role="italic">Accounting Standards Codification</emphasis>
          <emphasis role="superscript">®</emphasis>
          <ulink url="https://www.aicpa.org/research/technicalhotline.html">Technical
Hotline</ulink>
        </para>
        <para>
          All Q&amp;A sections can be found in .
          <tab/>
          <emphasis role="italic">
            <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tpa">Technical Questions and Answers</olink>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
    <table frame="all" print-only-role="ps_narrative_normal" id="aag-afi3_table1" role="ps_table_center">
      <tgroup align="left" cols="2">
        <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2.5in"/>
        <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="4in"/>
        <tbody>
          <row valign="top">
            <entry>
              <para>
                , “Obtaining an Understanding of Business Processes Relevant to Financial
Reporting and Communication”
                <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_17">8200.17</olink>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses whether auditors are required
to obtain an understanding of business processes relevant to financial
reporting and communication in every audit engagement.</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row valign="top">
            <entry>
              <para>
                , “Obtaining an Understanding of Internal Control Relevant to the
Audit”
                <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_18">8200.18</olink>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses whether an understanding of internal
control relevant to the audit should encompass more than control activities. </para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row valign="top">
            <entry>
              <para>
                , “Obtaining an Understanding of the Controls Relevant to the Audit”
                <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_19">8200.19</olink>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses whether an understanding of controls
relevant to the audit requires that the auditor evaluate the design
of controls relevant to the audit and determine whether they have
been implemented every year. </para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row valign="top">
            <entry>
              <para>
                , “Control Activities That Are Always Relevant to the Audit”
                <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_20">8200.20</olink>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses the control activities that are
always considered to be relevant in every audit. </para>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row valign="top">
            <entry>
              <para>
                , “Control Activities That May Be Relevant to the Audit”
                <olink targetdoc="tpa" targetptr="tis_8200_21">8200.21</olink>
              </para>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <para>This Q&amp;A section addresses the control activities that may
vary from audit engagement to audit engagement and may be relevant
to the audit (based on the auditor’s judgment).</para>
            </entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_06" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>3.06</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">3.06</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">As in any control system, it is sometimes
necessary to duplicate controls at different control levels (for example,
preventative, detective, and monitoring) to avoid the risk of material
misstatement.</para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_the_entitys_control_environment" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>The Entity’s Control Environment</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Entity’s Control Environment</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_commitment_to_competence" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Commitment to Competence </titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Commitment to Competence </title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_07" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.07</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.07</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The degree of complexity of some financial
instrument activities may mean that only a few individuals within
the entity fully understand those activities or have the expertise
necessary to value the instruments on an ongoing basis. Use of financial
instruments without relevant expertise within the entity increases
the risk of material misstatement.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_participation_by_those_charged" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Participation by Those Charged With Governance</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Participation by Those Charged With
Governance</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_08" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.08</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.08</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Paragraph .A79 of AU-C section 315B addresses
elements of the control environment that may be relevant when obtaining
an understanding of the control environment and identifies the following
attributes of those charged with governance:</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          their independence from management.
          <emphasis role="italic">a.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          their experience and stature.
          <emphasis role="italic">b.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          the extent of their involvement and the information they receive
and the scrutiny of activities.
          <emphasis role="italic">c.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          the appropriateness of their actions, including the degree
to which difficult questions are raised and pursued with management.
          <emphasis role="italic">d.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          their interaction with internal and external auditors.
          <emphasis role="italic">e.</emphasis>
          <tab/>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_0">Those charged with governance oversee and
concur with management’s establishment of the entity’s overall risk
appetite and provide oversight over the entity’s financial instrument
activities. An entity’s policies for the purchase, sale, and holding
of financial instruments are aligned with its attitude toward risk
and the expertise of those involved in financial instrument activities.
In addition, an entity may establish governance structures and control
processes aimed at</para>
        <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
          <listitem>
            <para>communicating investment decisions and assessments
of all material measurement uncertainty to those charged with governance,
as well as </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>evaluating the entity’s overall risk appetite when
engaging in financial instrument transactions.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_organizational_structure" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Organizational Structure</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Organizational Structure</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_09" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.09</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.09</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Financial instrument activities may be
operated on either a centralized or decentralized basis. Such activities
and related decision making depend heavily on the flow of accurate,
reliable, and timely management information. The difficulty of collecting
and aggregating such information increases with the number of locations
and businesses in which an entity is involved. The risks of material
misstatement associated with financial instrument activities may increase
with greater decentralization of control activities. This may especially
be true when an entity is based in different locations or, perhaps,
other countries.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_assignment_of_authority_and" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Assignment of Authority and Responsibility</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Assignment of Authority and Responsibility</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_10" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.10</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.10</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Providing direction through clearly stated
policies approved by those charged with governance for the purchase,
sale, and holding of financial instruments enables management to establish
an effective approach to taking and managing business risks. These
policies are most clear when they state the entity’s objectives with
regard to its risk management activities and the financial instrument
and hedging alternatives available to meet these objectives and when
they reflect the following:</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Level of management’s expertise
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Sophistication of the entity’s internal control and monitoring systems
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Entity’s asset and liability structure
          <emphasis role="italic">
            c.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Entity’s capacity to maintain liquidity and absorb losses of capital
          <emphasis role="italic">
            d.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Types of financial instruments that management believes will meet
its objectives
          <emphasis role="italic">
            e.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Uses of financial instruments that management believes will meet
its objectives (for example, whether derivatives may be used for speculative
purposes or only for hedging purposes)
          <emphasis role="italic">
            f.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_11" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.11</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.11</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Management may design policies aligned
with its valuation capabilities and establish controls to ensure that
these policies are adhered to by those employees responsible for the
entity’s valuation. These may include</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          processes for the design and validation of methodologies used to
produce valuations, including how measurement uncertainty is addressed.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          policies regarding maximizing the use of observable inputs and the
types of information to be gathered to support valuations of financial
instruments.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_12" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.12</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.12</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">In smaller entities, dealing in financial
instruments may be rare, and management’s knowledge and experience
may be limited. Nevertheless, establishing policies over financial
instruments helps an entity determine its risk appetite and consider
whether investing in particular financial instruments achieves a stated
objective.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_human_resource_policies_and" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Human Resource Policies and Practices</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Human Resource Policies and Practices</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_13" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.13</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.13</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Entities may establish policies requiring
key employees, both sales function and administrative and support
services, to take mandatory time off from their duties. This type
of control is used as a means of preventing and detecting fraud, in
particular if those engaged in trading activities are creating false
trades or inaccurately recording transactions.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_use_of_service_organizations" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Use of Service Organizations</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Use of Service Organizations</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_14" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.14</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.14</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          Entities may use service organizations
(for example, asset managers) to initiate the purchase or sale of
financial instruments, maintain records of transactions for the entity,
or value financial instruments. Some entities may be dependent on
these service organizations to provide the basis of reporting for
the financial instruments held. However, if management does not have
an understanding about the controls in place at a service organization,
the auditor may not be able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence to rely on controls at that service organization. AU-C section
402B, , establishes requirements
for the auditor to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence when
an entity uses the services of one or more service organizations.  provide further
guidance about the use of a service organization.
          <emphasis role="italic">Audit Considerations Relating to an
Entity Using a Service Organization</emphasis>
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi3_40">Paragraphs 3.40–.54</olink>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_15" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.15</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.15</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The use of service organizations may strengthen
or weaken the control environment for financial instruments. For example,
a service organization’s personnel may have more experience with financial
instruments than the entity’s management or more robust internal control
over financial reporting. The use of the service organization also
may allow for greater segregation of duties. On the other hand, the
service organization may have a poor control environment. </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_16" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.16</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.16</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          , "Illustrative Questions About the Entity’s Controls Over
Its Financial Instrument Activities," of this guide provides an illustration
of questions that may be helpful to the auditor in obtaining an understanding
of an entity’s controls over its financial instrument activities.
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appB">Appendix
B</olink>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_the_entitys_risk_assessment" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>The Entity’s Risk Assessment Process</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Entity’s Risk Assessment Process</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_17" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.17</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.17</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">An entity’s risk assessment process exists
to establish how management identifies business risks that derive
from its use of financial instruments, including how management estimates
the significance of the risks, assesses the likelihood of their occurrence,
and decides upon actions to manage them.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_18" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.18</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.18</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The entity’s risk assessment process forms
the basis for how management determines the risks to be managed. Risk
assessment processes exist with the objective of ensuring that management</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        understands the risks inherent in a financial instrument before they
enter into it, including the objective of entering into the transaction
and its structure (for example, the economics and business purpose
of the entity’s financial instrument activities).
        <emphasis role="italic">
          a.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        performs adequate due diligence commensurate with the risks associated
with particular financial instruments.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          b.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        monitors its outstanding positions to understand how market conditions
are affecting its exposures.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          c.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        has procedures in place to reduce or change risk exposure if necessary
and for managing business risk, which includes the risk of damaging
its reputation.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          d.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        subjects these processes to rigorous supervision and review.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          e.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_19" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.19</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.19</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The structure implemented to monitor and
manage exposure to risks should</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        be appropriate and consistent with the entity’s attitude toward risk
as determined by those charged with governance.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          a.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        specify the approval levels for the authorization of different types
of financial instruments and transactions that may be entered into
and for what purposes. The permitted instruments and approval levels
should reflect the expertise of those involved in financial instrument
activities, demonstrating management’s commitment to competence.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          b.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        set appropriate limits for the maximum allowable exposure to each
type of risk (including approved counterparties). Levels of allowable
exposure may vary depending on the type of risk or counterparty.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          c.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        provide for the objective and timely monitoring of the financial
risks and control activities.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          d.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        provide for the objective and timely reporting of exposures, risks,
and the results of financial instrument activities in managing risk.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          e.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        evaluate management’s track record for assessing the risks of particular
financial instruments.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          f.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_20" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.20</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.20</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The types and levels of risks that an
entity faces are directly related to the types of financial instruments
with which it deals, including the complexity of these instruments
and the volume of financial instruments transacted.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_risk_management_function" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Risk Management Function</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Risk Management Function</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_21" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.21</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.21</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Some entities (for example, large financial
institutions with a high volume of financial instrument transactions)
may be required by law or regulation or may choose to establish a
formal risk management function. This function is separated from those
responsible for undertaking and managing financial instrument transactions.
The function is responsible for reporting on and monitoring financial
instrument activities and may include a formal risk committee established
by those charged with governance. Examples of key responsibilities
in this area may include</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          implementing the risk management policy set by those charged with
governance (including analyses of the risks to which an entity may
be exposed).
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          designing risk limit structures and ensuring these risk limits are
implemented in practice.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          developing stress scenarios and subjecting open position portfolios
to sensitivity analysis, including reviews of unusual movements in
positions.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            c.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          reviewing and analyzing new financial instrument products.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            d.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_22" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.22</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.22</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Financial instruments may have the associated
risk that a loss might exceed the amount, if any, of the value of
the financial instrument recognized on the balance sheet. For example,
a sudden fall in the market price of a commodity may force an entity
to realize losses to close a forward position in that commodity due
to collateral, or margin, requirements. In some cases, the potential
losses may be enough to cast substantial doubt on the entity’s ability
to continue as a going concern. The entity may perform sensitivity
analyses or value-at-risk analyses to assess the future hypothetical
effects on financial instruments subject to market risks. However,
value-at-risk analysis does not fully reflect the extent of the risks
that may affect the entity; sensitivity and scenario analyses also
may be subject to limitations.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_23" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.23</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.23</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The volume and sophistication of financial
instrument activity and relevant regulatory requirements will influence
the entity’s consideration whether to establish a formal risk management
function and how the function may be structured. In entities that
have not established a separate risk management function (for example,
entities with relatively few financial instruments or financial instruments
that are less complex), reporting on and monitoring financial instrument
activities may be a component of the accounting or finance function’s
responsibility or management’s overall responsibility and may include
a formal risk committee established by those charged with governance.</para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_the_entitys_information_system" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>The Entity’s Information System</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Entity’s Information System</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_24" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.24</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.24</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The key objective of an entity’s information
system is that it is capable of capturing and recording all the transactions
accurately, settling them, valuing them, and producing information
to enable the financial instruments to be risk managed and for controls
to be monitored. Difficulties can arise in entities that engage in
a high volume of financial instruments, in particular if a multiplicity
of systems are poorly integrated and have manual interfaces without
adequate controls. </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_25" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.25</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.25</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Certain financial instruments may require
a large number of accounting entries. As the sophistication or level
of the financial instrument activities increases, it is necessary
for the sophistication of the information system to also increase.
Specific issues that can arise with respect to financial instruments
include</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        information systems, particularly for smaller entities, not having
the capability or being appropriately configured to process financial
instrument transactions, especially when the entity does not have
any prior experience in dealing with financial instruments. This may
result in an increased number of manual transactions that may further
increase the risk of error.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          a.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        the potential diversity of systems required to process more complex
transactions and the need for regular reconciliations between them,
in particular when the systems are not interfaced or may be subject
to manual intervention.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          b.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        the potential that more complex transactions, if they are only traded
by a small number of individuals, may be valued or risk managed on
spreadsheets rather than main processing systems and for the physical
and logical password security around those spreadsheets to be more
easily compromised.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          c.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        a lack of review of systems exception logs, external confirmations,
and broker quotes, when available, to validate the entries generated
by the systems.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          d.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        difficulties in controlling and evaluating the key inputs to systems
for valuation of financial instruments, particularly when those systems
are maintained by the group of traders known as the sales function
or a third-party service provider, or the transactions in question
are nonroutine or thinly traded.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          e.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        failure to evaluate the design and calibration of complex models
used to process these transactions initially and on a periodic basis.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          f.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        the potential that management has not set up a library of models
with controls around access, change, and maintenance of individual
models in order to maintain a strong audit trail of the accredited
versions of models and in order to prevent unauthorized access or
amendments to those models.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          g.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        the disproportionate investment that may be required in risk management
and control systems when an entity only undertakes a limited number
of financial instrument transactions and the potential for misunderstanding
of the output by management if the risk management and control systems
are not used for these types of transactions.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          h.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        the potential requirement for third-party systems providers (for
example, from a service organization) to record, process, account
for, or risk manage appropriately financial instrument transactions
and the need to reconcile appropriately and challenge the output from
those providers.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          i.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        additional security and control considerations relevant to the use
of an electronic network when an entity uses electronic commerce for
financial instrument transactions.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          j.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_26" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.26</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.26</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Information systems relevant to financial
reporting serve as an important source of information for the quantitative
disclosures in the financial statements. However, entities may also
develop and maintain nonfinancial systems used for internal reporting
and to generate information included in qualitative disclosures (for
example, regarding risks and uncertainties or sensitivity analyses).</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_the_entitys_control_activities" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>The Entity’s Control Activities</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Entity’s Control Activities</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_27" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.27</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.27</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Control activities over financial instrument
transactions are designed to prevent or detect problems that hinder
an entity from achieving its objectives. These objectives may be operational,
financial reporting, or compliance in nature. Control activities over
financial instruments are designed relative to the complexity and
volume of transactions of financial instruments and will generally
include an appropriate authorization process, adequate segregation
of duties, and other policies and procedures designed to ensure that
the entity’s control objectives are met. Process flow charts may assist
in identifying an entity’s controls and lack of controls.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_authorization" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Authorization</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Authorization</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_28" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.28</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.28</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Authorization can affect the financial
statement assertions both directly and indirectly. For example, even
if a transaction is executed outside an entity’s policies, it nonetheless
may be recorded and accounted for accurately. However, unauthorized
transactions could significantly increase risk to the entity, thereby
significantly increasing the risk of material misstatement because
they would be undertaken outside the system of internal control. To
mitigate this risk, an entity will often establish a clear policy
regarding what transactions can be traded by whom, and adherence to
this policy will then be monitored by an entity’s administrative and
support services. Monitoring trading activities of individuals (for
example, by reviewing unusually high volumes or significant gains
or losses incurred) will assist management in ensuring compliance
with the entity’s policies, including the authorization of new types
of transactions, and evaluating whether fraud has occurred.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_29" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.29</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.29</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">The function of an entity’s deal initiation
records is to identify clearly the nature and purpose of individual
transactions and the rights and obligations arising under each financial
instrument contract, including the enforceability of the contracts.
In addition to the basic financial information, such as a notional
amount, complete and accurate records, at a minimum, typically include
the</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          identity of the dealer.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          identity of the person recording the transaction (if not the dealer),
when the transaction was initiated (including the date and time of
the transaction), and how it was recorded in the entity’s information
systems.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          nature and purpose of the transaction, including whether it is intended
to hedge an underlying commercial exposure.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            c.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_segregation_of_duties" role="ls_level_5">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>Segregation of Duties</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_subsub_heading">Segregation of Duties</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <section id="aag-afi3_30" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.30</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.30</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Segregation of duties and the assignment
of personnel is an important control activity, particularly when exposed
to financial instruments. Financial instrument activities may be segregated
into a number of functions, including the following:</para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Executing the transaction (dealing). In entities with a high volume
of financial instrument transactions, this may be done by the sales
function.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            a.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Initiating cash payments and accepting cash receipts (settlements).
          <emphasis role="italic">
            b.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Sending out trade confirmations and reconciling the differences between
the entity’s records and replies from counterparties, if any.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            c.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Recording correctly all transactions in the accounting records.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            d.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Monitoring risk limits. In entities with a high volume of financial
instrument transactions, this may be performed by the risk management
function.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            e.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
        <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
          Monitoring positions and valuing financial instruments.
          <emphasis role="italic">
            f.
            <tab/>
          </emphasis>
        </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_31" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.31</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.31</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Many organizations choose to segregate
the duties of those investing in financial instruments, those valuing
financial instruments, those settling financial instruments, and those
accounting for the financial instruments. </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_32" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.32</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.32</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">When an entity is too small to achieve
proper segregation of duties, the role of management and those charged
with governance in monitoring financial instrument activities is of
particular importance.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_33" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.33</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.33</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">A feature of some entities’ internal control
is an independent price verification (IPV) function. This department
is responsible for separately verifying the price of some financial
instruments and may use alternative data sources, methodologies, and
assumptions. The IPV provides an objective look at the pricing that
has been developed in another part of the entity. </para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_34" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.34</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.34</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Ordinarily, the risk management function
establishes policies on valuation and other functions (for example,
administrative and support services) and may be responsible for ensuring
adherence to the policy. Entities with a greater use of financial
instruments may perform daily valuations of their financial instrument
portfolio and examine the contribution to profit or loss of individual
financial instrument valuations as a test of the reasonableness of
valuations.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_35" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.35</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.35</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Regular reconciliation of the entity’s
records to external banks’ and custodians’ records enables the entity
to ensure transactions are properly recorded. Appropriate segregation
of duties between those transacting the trades and those reconciling
them is important, as is a rigorous process for reviewing reconciliations
and clearing reconciling items.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_36" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.36</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.36</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">Controls may also be established that
require traders to identify whether a complex financial instrument
may have unique features (for example, embedded derivatives). In such
circumstances, there may be a separate function that evaluates complex
financial instrument transactions at their initiation (which may be
known as a product control group) working in connection with an accounting
policy group to ensure that the transaction is accurately recorded.
Although smaller entities may not have product control groups, an
entity may have a process in place relating to the review of complex
financial instrument contracts at the point of origination in order
to ensure that they are accounted for appropriately in accordance
with the applicable financial reporting framework.</para>
      </section>
      <section id="aag-afi3_37" role="ls_level_8">
        <sectioninfo>
          <titleabbrev>3.37</titleabbrev>
          <title role="ps_para_number">3.37</title>
        </sectioninfo>
        <para role="ps_para_number">
          , "Examples of Control Objectives, Related Controls, and
Illustrative Tests of Controls for Financial Instruments," of this
guide provides examples of control objectives, related controls, and
illustrative tests of controls for financial instruments.
          <olink targetptr="aag-afi_appC">Appendix
C</olink>
        </para>
      </section>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi3_monitoring_of_controls" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Monitoring of Controls</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Monitoring of Controls</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi3_38" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.38</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.38</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">The entity’s ongoing monitoring activities
are designed to detect and correct any deficiencies in the effectiveness
of controls over transactions for financial instruments and their
valuation. It is important that there is adequate supervision and
review of financial instrument activity within the entity, including</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        all controls being subject to review (for example, the monitoring
of operational statistics, such as the number of reconciling items
or the difference between internal pricing and external pricing sources).
        <emphasis role="italic">
          a.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        the need for robust IT controls and monitoring and validating their
application.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          b.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        the need to ensure that information resulting from different processes
and systems is adequately reconciled. For example, there is little
benefit in a valuation process if its output is not reconciled properly
to the general ledger.
        <emphasis role="italic">
          c.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi3_39" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>3.39</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">3.39</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In larger entities, sophisticated computer
information systems generally keep track of financial instrument activities
and are designed to ensure that settlements occur when due. More complex
computer systems may generate automatic postings to clearing accounts
to monitor cash movements, and controls over processing are put in
place with the objective of ensuring that financial instrument activities
are correctly reflected in the entity’s records. Computer systems
may be designed to produce exception reports to alert management to
situations when financial instruments have not been used within authorized
limits or when transactions undertaken were not within the limits
established for the chosen counterparties. However, even a sophisticated
computer system may not ensure the completeness of the recording of
financial instrument transactions. Accordingly, management frequently
puts additional procedures in place to increase the likelihood that
all transactions will be recorded.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>