<root id="aag-afi4_assessing_the_risks_of" role="ls_level_3">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_main_heading">Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <section id="aag-afi4_01" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.01</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.01</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">
      The auditor’s assessment of the identified
risks at the assertion level in accordance with AU-C section 315B, , includes evaluating
the design and implementation of internal control. It provides a basis for considering the appropriate audit
approach for designing and performing further audit procedures in
accordance with AU-C section 330B, , including both substantive procedures
and tests of controls. The approach taken is influenced by the auditor’s
understanding of internal control relevant to the audit, including
the strength of the control environment and any risk management function,
the size and complexity of the entity’s operations, and whether the
auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement include
an expectation that controls are operating effectively. 
      <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing
the Risks of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
      <emphasis role="italic">Performing
Audit Procedures in Response to Assessed Risks and Evaluating the
Audit Evidence Obtained</emphasis>
      <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn2" label="fn 2" role="number">
        <para>Each AU-C section in this guide designated with a “B” suffix
(for example, “AU-C section 200B”) denotes content that does not reflect
the codification of Statement on Auditing Standards (SAS) Nos. 134–140
or the amendments to other SASs made by SAS Nos. 134–140 and subsequently
issued SASs.</para>
      </footnote>
    </para>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_02" role="ls_level_8">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>4.02</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_para_number">4.02</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <para role="ps_para_number">The auditor’s assessment of the risk of
material misstatement at the assertion level may change during the
course of the audit as additional information is obtained. Remaining
alert during the audit (for example, when inspecting records or documents)
may assist the auditor in identifying arrangements or other information
that may indicate the existence of financial instruments that management
has not previously identified or disclosed to the auditor. Such records
and documents may include, for example</para>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
      <listitem>
        <para>minutes of meetings of those charged with governance.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>specific invoices from, and correspondence with, the
entity’s professional advisers.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_overall_considerations_relating_to" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Overall Considerations Relating to Financial Instruments</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Overall Considerations Relating to Financial
Instruments</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi4_03" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.03</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.03</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Paragraph .02 of AU-C section 540B, , explains
that the degree of estimation uncertainty affects the risk of material
misstatement of accounting estimates. The use of more complex financial
instruments, such as those that have a high level of uncertainty and
variability of future cash flows, may lead to an increased risk of
material misstatement, particularly regarding valuation. Other matters
affecting the risk of material misstatement include the
        <emphasis role="italic">Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value
Accounting Estimates, and Related Disclosures</emphasis>
      </para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>volume of financial instruments to which the entity
is exposed.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>terms of the financial instrument, including whether
the financial instrument itself includes other financial instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>nature of the financial instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_the_use_of_assertions" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>The Use of Assertions</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">The Use of Assertions</title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi4_04" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.04</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.04</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Assertions used by the auditor to consider
the different types of potential misstatements that may occur fall
into the following three categories and may take the following forms:
        <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn3" label="fn 3" role="number">
          <para>
            Paragraph .A114 of AU-C section 315B, .
            <emphasis role="italic">Understanding the Entity and Its Environment and Assessing the Risks
of Material Misstatement</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Assertions about classes of transactions and events for the period
under audit, such as the following:
        <emphasis role="italic">
          a.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
        i.. Transactions and events that have been recorded have occurred and
pertain to the entity.
        <tab/>
        <emphasis role="italic">Occurrence</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
        ii.. All transactions and events that should have been recorded have
been recorded.
        <tab/>
        <emphasis role="italic">Completeness</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
        iii.. Amounts and other data relating to recorded transactions and events
have been recorded appropriately.
        <tab/>
        <emphasis role="italic">Accuracy</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
        iv.. Transactions and events have been recorded in the correct accounting
period.
        <tab/>
        <emphasis role="italic">Cutoff</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
        v.. Transactions and events have been recorded in the proper accounts.
        <tab/>
        <emphasis role="italic">Classification</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Assertions about account balances at period-end, such as the following:
        <emphasis role="italic">
          b.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
        i.. Assets, liabilities, and equity interests exist.
        <tab/>
        <emphasis role="italic">Existence</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
        ii.. The entity holds or controls the rights
to assets, and liabilities are the obligations of the entity.
        <tab/>
        <emphasis role="italic">Rights
and obligations</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
        iii.. All assets, liabilities, and equity interests that should have
been recorded have been recorded.
        <tab/>
        <emphasis role="italic">Completeness</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
        iv.. Assets, liabilities, and equity interests
are included in the financial statements at appropriate amounts, and
any resulting valuation or allocation adjustments are appropriately
recorded.
        <tab/>
        <emphasis role="italic">Valuation
and allocation</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_2">
        Assertions about presentation and disclosure, such as the following:
        <emphasis role="italic">
          c.
          <tab/>
        </emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
        i.. Disclosed events, transactions,
and other matters have occurred and pertain to the entity.
        <tab/>
        <emphasis role="italic">Occurrence
and rights and obligations</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
        ii.. All disclosures that should have been included in the financial
statements have been included.
        <tab/>
        <emphasis role="italic">Completeness</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
        iii.. Financial information is appropriately
presented and described, and disclosures are clearly expressed.
        <tab/>
        <emphasis role="italic">Classification
and understandability</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para role="ps_indent_hang_4">
        iv.. Financial and other information is disclosed
fairly and in appropriate amounts.
        <tab/>
        <emphasis role="italic">Accuracy
and valuation</emphasis>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_05" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.05</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.05</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">
        Paragraph .A41 of AU-C section 200B, , states that the risks of material misstatement
at the assertion level consist of two components: inherent risk and
control risk. The following exhibit summarizes the examples of considerations
that might affect the auditor’s assessment of the inherent risk for
assertions about financial instruments.
        <emphasis role="italic">Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the
Conduct of an Audit in Accordance With Generally Accepted Auditing
Standards</emphasis>
      </para>
      <para id="aag-afi4_exhibit_4-1" role="ps_sub_heading">
        <emphasis role="bold">Exhibit 4-1 — Characteristics That Might Affect Inherent
Risk</emphasis>
      </para>
      <table frame="all" id="aag-afi4_table1" role="ps_table_center">
        <tgroup align="left" cols="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
          <colspec colname="c1" colsep="0" colwidth="1.36in"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1.49in"/>
          <colspec colname="c5" colwidth="1.52in"/>
          <colspec colname="c7" colwidth="1.27in"/>
          <thead>
            <row rowsep="0">
              <entry align="center" nameend="c7" namest="c1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Indications of</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Characteristic</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Higher Risk</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="1" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Lower Risk</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
              <entry align="center" colsep="0" role="shade" rowsep="1" valign="bottom">
                <para>
                  <emphasis role="italic">Related Assertion</emphasis>
                </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Management’s objective</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Financial instruments used as hedges</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Financial instruments held as investments</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0">
                <para>Rights and obligations, valuation, and presentation and disclosure </para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Management’s intent and ability</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Accounting treatment based on management’s intent and ability</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Accounting treatment based on objective criteria</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0">
                <para>Valuation and presentation and disclosure</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Complexity of financial instruments</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>More complex instrument (for example, futures contracts, swaps,
or stock appreciation rights)</para>
                <para>Collaterized mortgage obligations</para>
                <para>Stock warrants</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Less complex instrument (for example, common stock traded on
an exchange or U.S government agency debt)</para>
                <para>U.S. Treasury securities</para>
                <para>Common stock</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Rights and obligations, valuation, and presentation and disclosure</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Relationship of the derivative to the hedged item or underlying
security</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Low degree of correlation</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>High degree of correlation</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="0">
                <para>Valuation and presentation and disclosure</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Exchange of cash at inception</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>No exchange of cash at inception</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Cash exchanged at inception</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>Completeness and presentation and disclosure</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Freestanding versus embedded</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Embedded derivative</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Freestanding derivative</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>Completeness and presentation and disclosure</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Credit risk</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>High counterparty credit risk</para>
                <para>High nonpayment risk</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Low counterparty credit risk</para>
                <para>Low nonpayment risk</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>Valuation</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Market risk</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Volatile values or interest rates</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Stable values or interest rates</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>Valuation</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Nature of security and related accounting principles</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Rapidly evolving</para>
              </entry>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Relatively stable</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>All</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="1">
                <para>Assumptions about future conditions</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>Significant subjective assumptions</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>Relatively few, objective, and verifiable assumptions</para>
              </entry>
              <entry>
                <para>All</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_fraud_risk_factors" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Fraud Risk Factors</titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">
        Fraud Risk Factors
        <footnote id="aag-afi4_fn4" label="fn 4" role="number">
          <para>
            AU-C section 240B, , addresses fraud risk
factors.
            <emphasis role="italic">Consideration of
Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit</emphasis>
          </para>
        </footnote>
      </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi4_06" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.06</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.06</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Incentives for fraudulent financial reporting
by employees may exist when compensation arrangements are dependent
on returns made from the use of financial instruments. Understanding
how an entity’s compensation policies interact with its risk appetite
and the incentives this may create for its management and traders
may be important in assessing the risk of fraud.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_07" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.07</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.07</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Difficult financial market conditions
may give rise to increased incentives for management or employees
to engage in fraudulent financial reporting to, for example</para>
      <para role="ps_indent_0">For example, at times of market instability,
unexpected losses may arise from extreme fluctuations in market prices,
from unanticipated declines in asset prices, through trading misjudgments,
or for other reasons. In addition, financing difficulties create pressures
on management concerned about the solvency of the business.</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>protect personal bonuses.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>hide employee or management fraud or error.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>avoid breaching regulatory, liquidity, or borrowing
limits.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>avoid reporting losses. </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_08" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.08</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.08</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Misappropriation of assets and fraudulent
financial reporting may often involve override of controls that otherwise
may appear to be operating effectively. This may include override
of controls over data, assumptions, and detailed process controls
that allow losses and theft to be hidden. For example, difficult market
conditions may increase pressure to conceal or offset trades as management
attempts to recover losses.</para>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="aag-afi4_factors_to_consider_in" role="ls_level_4">
    <sectioninfo>
      <titleabbrev>Factors to Consider in Determining Whether and to What
Extent to Test the Operating Effectiveness of Controls </titleabbrev>
      <title role="ps_sub_heading">Factors to Consider in Determining Whether
and to What Extent to Test the Operating Effectiveness of Controls </title>
    </sectioninfo>
    <section id="aag-afi4_09" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.09</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.09</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">An expectation that controls are operating
effectively may be more common when dealing with an entity with well-established
controls; therefore, testing controls may be an effective means of
obtaining audit evidence. When an entity has a trading function, substantive
procedures alone may not provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence
due to the volume of contracts and the different systems used. Tests
of controls, however, will not be sufficient on their own because
the auditor is required by paragraph .18 of AU-C section 330B to design
and perform substantive procedures for all relevant assertions related
to each material class of transactions, account balance, and disclosure.</para>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_10" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.10</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.10</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">Entities with a high volume of trading
and use of financial instruments may have more sophisticated controls
and an effective risk management function; therefore, the auditor
may be more likely to test controls in obtaining evidence about the
following:</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>The occurrence, completeness, valuation, accuracy,
and cutoff of the transactions</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>The existence, rights and obligations, and completeness
of account balances</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_11" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.11</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.11</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">In those entities with relatively few
financial instrument transactions</para>
      <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
        <listitem>
          <para>management and those charged with governance may have
only a limited understanding of financial instruments and how they
affect the business.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>the entity may only have a few different types of
instruments, with little or no interaction between them.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            there is unlikely to be a complex control environment
(for example, the controls described in , "Internal Control," of this guide may not be in
place at the entity).
            <olink targetptr="aag-afi3">chapter 3</olink>
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>management may use pricing information from third-party
pricing sources to value their instruments.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>controls over the use of pricing information from
third-party pricing sources may be less sophisticated.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section id="aag-afi4_12" role="ls_level_8">
      <sectioninfo>
        <titleabbrev>4.12</titleabbrev>
        <title role="ps_para_number">4.12</title>
      </sectioninfo>
      <para role="ps_para_number">When an entity has relatively few transactions
involving financial instruments, it may be relatively easy for the
auditor to obtain an understanding of the entity’s objectives for
using the financial instruments and the characteristics of the instruments.
In such circumstances, much of the audit evidence is likely to be
substantive in nature; the auditor may perform the majority of the
audit work at year-end; and third-party confirmations are likely to
provide evidence in relation to the completeness, accuracy, and existence
of the transactions. </para>
    </section>
  </section>
</root>