<root id="aag-afi2_10" role="ls_level_8">
  <sectioninfo>
    <titleabbrev>2.10</titleabbrev>
    <title role="ps_para_number">2.10</title>
  </sectioninfo>
  <para role="ps_para_number">Accordingly, auditing financial instruments
may require the involvement of one or more specialists in the areas
of, for example</para>
  <itemizedlist mark="bullet" role="ps_indent_2">
    <listitem>
      <para>understanding the financial instruments used by the
entity and their characteristics, including their level of complexity.
Using specialized skills and knowledge may be needed in checking whether
all aspects of the financial instrument and related considerations
have been captured in the financial statements and in evaluating whether
adequate disclosure in accordance with the applicable financial reporting
framework has been made when disclosure of risks is required.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>understanding the applicable financial reporting framework,
especially when areas are known to be subject to differing interpretations,
or practice is inconsistent or developing.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>understanding the legal, regulatory, and tax implications
resulting from the financial instruments, including whether the contracts
are enforceable by the entity (for example, reviewing the underlying
contracts), which may require specialized skills and knowledge.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>assessing the risks inherent in a financial instrument.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>assisting the engagement team in gathering evidence
to evaluate management’s valuations or to develop a point estimate
or range, especially when fair value is determined by a complex model;
when markets are inactive, and data and assumptions are difficult
to obtain; when unobservable inputs are used; or when management has
used a specialist.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>evaluating IT controls, especially in entities with
a high volume of financial instruments. In such entities, IT may be
highly complex (for example, when significant information about those
financial instruments is transmitted, processed, maintained, or accessed
electronically). In addition, it may include relevant services provided
by a service organization.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</root>